item1.txt
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. ASC Topic 606 defines a five-step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. 
Another change identified upon adoption was with respect to deferred contract costs, which include incremental costs of obtaining a contract and costs to fulfill a contract. Deferred contract costs had been minimal under our prior practices as most costs to obtain a contract and fulfill a contract were expensed as incurred. However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to Retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts. Substantially all of this adjustment is related to the deferral of sales commissions paid to sales people and agents in connection with the placement of equipment with post sale service arrangements.
Our services contracts may also include the sale or lease of equipment and software. In these instances, we follow the policies noted for Equipment or Software Revenues and separately report the revenue associated with these performance obligations. Certain document management services arrangements may also include an embedded lease of equipment. In these instances, the revenues associated with the lease are recognized in accordance with the requirements for lease accounting. 
Revenues under bundled arrangements are allocated considering the relative standalone selling prices of the lease and non-lease deliverables included in the bundled arrangement. Lease deliverables include the equipment, financing, maintenance and other executory costs, while non-lease deliverables generally consist of the supplies and non-maintenance services. The allocation for the lease deliverables begins by allocating revenues to the maintenance and other executory costs plus a profit thereon. These elements are generally recognized over the term of the lease as service revenue. The remaining amounts are allocated to the equipment and financing elements, which are subjected to the accounting estimates noted below under “Leases”.
We consider the economic life of most of our products to be five years, since this represents the most frequent contractual lease term for our principal products and only a small percentage of our leases are for original terms longer than five years. There is no significant after-market for our used equipment. We believe five years is representative of the period during which the equipment is expected to be economically usable, with normal service, for the purpose for which it is intended. Residual values are not significant.
With respect to fair value, we perform an analysis of equipment fair value based on cash selling prices during the applicable period. The cash selling prices are compared to the range of values determined for our leases. The range of cash selling prices must be reasonably consistent with the lease selling prices in order for us to determine that such lease prices are indicative of fair value.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, with additional amendments being issued in 2018. This update requires the recognition of right-to-use assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases currently classified as operating leases under existing lease guidance. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition. Short term leases with a term of 12 months or less are not required to be recognized. The update also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosure of key information regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leasing arrangements to increase transparency and comparability among companies. 
This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019. There are certain practical expedients that can be elected. On the Lessee side, a cross-functional implementation team has been established which is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process and policy change requirements. The Company has made progress in gathering the necessary data elements for the lease population and a system provider has been selected, with system configuration and implementation underway. The company is currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The Company is currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance. On the Lessor side, the Company continues to assess the potential impacts of the guidance on its lease agreements with customers, including potential changes in contracting terms, and we also expect to elect the package of practical expedients. 


item2.txt
To better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency. We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates. The constant currency impact for signings growth is calculated on the basis of plan currency rates.
Refer to Note 18 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 19 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this terminated transaction and related matters.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified. These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above. These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments. In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC. Fuji Xerox is committed to implementing additional measures to remediate these newly identified issues. 
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year periods was primarily due to Transaction and related costs, net and lower revenues. These impacts were partially offset by lower Non-service retirement-related costs and gains on the sale of non-core assets. The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was also negatively impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox and Income tax expense. 
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year periods was primarily related to lower revenues, partially offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, as well as gains from the sale of non-core assets. The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was also impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included an out of period adjustment recorded during the first quarter 2018, as well as higher income taxes.
•Services, maintenance and rentals revenue includes rental and maintenance revenue (including bundled supplies) as well as the post sale component of the document services revenue from our Managed Document Services (MDS) offerings, and revenues from our Communication and Marketing Solutions (CMS). 
•21% increase in color multifunction devices, reflecting demand for recently launched products across nearly all channels.
•21% increase in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven largely by higher activity from low-end devices in developing markets as well as higher sales through U.S. indirect channels. 
•29% increase in mid-range color installs, reflecting demand across large enterprise and indirect channels as well as a favorable impact due to the timing of our ConnectKey launch in the prior year.
•9% decrease in high-end color installs, as growth from our new Iridesse production press was offset by lower installs of iGen and lower-end production systems. 
•13% increase in color multifunction devices, reflecting demand for recently launched products across nearly all channels.


item4.txt
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
10.1 Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2018, by and among Registrant, Darwin Deason, the persons and entities listed on Schedule A thereto, William Curt Hunter, Jeffrey Jacobson, Robert J. Keegan, Charles Prince, Ann N. Reese, Stephen H. Rusckowski, Sara Martinez Tucker, Gregory Q. Brown, Joseph J. Echevarria and Cheryl Gordon Krongard.
10.2 Memorandum of Understanding, dated May 13, 2018, by and among representatives acting on behalf of Deason, Registrant, the Existing Directors and the other parties thereto.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
10.4 Letter Agreement dated May 14, 2018 between Registrant and John Visentin.


part2.txt
There were no repurchases of Xerox Common stock pursuant to Board authorized share repurchase programs during the second quarter of 2018.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
10.1 Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2018, by and among Registrant, Darwin Deason, the persons and entities listed on Schedule A thereto, William Curt Hunter, Jeffrey Jacobson, Robert J. Keegan, Charles Prince, Ann N. Reese, Stephen H. Rusckowski, Sara Martinez Tucker, Gregory Q. Brown, Joseph J. Echevarria and Cheryl Gordon Krongard.
10.2 Memorandum of Understanding, dated May 13, 2018, by and among representatives acting on behalf of Deason, Registrant, the Existing Directors and the other parties thereto.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.


