See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, and government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
We are technology "agnostic," with a portfolio including more than 100,000 products and services from more than 1,000 leading and emerging brands.
Our solutions are delivered in physical, virtual and cloud-based environments through over 6,000 customer-facing coworkers, including sellers, highly-skilled technology specialists and advanced service delivery engineers.
We are a leading sales channel partner for many original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and cloud providers (collectively, our "vendor partners"), whose products we sell or include in the solutions we offer.
We provide our vendor partners with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage, technical expertise and extensive customer access.
Prior period amounts have been adjusted accordingly.
This is particularly the case for business customers, as their purchases tend to reflect confidence in their business prospects, which are driven by their perceptions of business conditions.
•Changes in spending policies, budget priorities and funding levels are a key factor influencing government, healthcare and education purchasing levels.
•Customer focus on security has been, and we expect will continue to be, an ongoing trend.
•There continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the impact of the Referendum on the UK's Membership of the European Union ("EU"), advising for the exit of the UK from the EU (referred to as "Brexit").
To date, CDW UK is not seeing significant changes in the buying behavior of its customers even with the uncertainty related to the timing and terms of Brexit.
Innovation influences customer purchases across all of our customer end-markets.
Key trends in technology include increasing adoption of cloud-based solutions for certain key workloads, including backup and recovery, collaboration and security, as well as adoption of hyper-converged appliances to deliver greater flexibility and efficiency.
We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per common share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable plus days of supply in Inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit and leverage ratios, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.
These measures and ratios are compared to standards or objectives set by management, so that actions can be taken, as necessary, in order to achieve the standards and objectives.
In this Form 10-Q, we discuss Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin, which are non-GAAP financial measures.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA is a measure in the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Term Loan Facility ("Term Loan"), which is used to evaluate our ability to make certain investments, incur additional debt, and make restricted payments, such as dividends and share repurchases, as well as whether we are required to make additional principal prepayments on the Term Loan beyond the quarterly amortization payments.
For further details regarding the Term Loan, see Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements within Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the definitions of Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations to Net income, see "Results of Operations."
Total Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $350 million, or 10.8%, to $3,606 million, compared to $3,256 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, constant currency Net sales growth was 9.6%.
See “Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations” below for additional information regarding constant currency Net Sales growth.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, ongoing focus on client refresh drove growth within transactional products and we saw an increase in solution-based sales, led by software.
Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $125 million, or 8.7%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Growth was primarily driven by client devices, as well as solutions categories, including software and netcomm products.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased by $36 million, or 12.2%, between periods.
Sales growth was primarily driven by client devices and video.
Public segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $76 million, or 6.6%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Net sales to Government customers increased $44 million.
Sales to State and Local government customers were driven by a continued focus on public safety and the success executing against recently added contracts.
Federal sales benefited from the sale of client devices to the Department of Defense to meet a cybersecurity mandate deadline of January 31, 2018.
Education Net sales increased 1.0%.
Ongoing success addressing networking and client device needs in Higher Ed was partially offset by K-12 performance as success addressing collaborative learning implementations was offset by reduced focus on client devices as customers focus on extending lives and maintaining existing equipment.
Net sales in Healthcare increased 7.3%, primarily driven by performance in desktops, video and software.
Net sales in Other, which is comprised of results from our UK and Canadian operations, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $113 million, or 30.6%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.
strong growth in local currency as we continued to take share in the local markets driven in part by fiscal year-end buying by public entities and certain UK commercial customers, as well as the benefit from increased sales for referrals from US customers to the UK.
The impact of foreign currency exchange increased Other sales growth by approximately 1,100 basis points, due to the favorable impact resulting from the British pound and Canadian dollar to US dollar translations.
Gross profit increased $50 million, or 9.1%, to $604 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to $554 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
This was partially offset by a higher mix of revenue recognized on a net basis.
Selling and administrative expenses increased $16 million, or 4.4%, to $363 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to $347 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
This was driven by higher sales payroll costs, including sales commissions primarily due to higher Gross profit dollars.
This was partially offset by lower equity-based compensation expense and the associated payroll taxes.
As a percentage of total Net sales, Selling and administrative expenses decreased 60 basis points to 10.1% during the three months ended March 31, 2018, down from 10.7% in the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Income from operations was $204 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase of $33 million, or 19.6%, compared to $171 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses.
increase was primarily due to lower sales payroll expense, which trends in line with gross profit dollars, as a percentage of Net sales.
Corporate segment income from operations was $125 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase of $13 million, or 11.3%, compared to $112 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Corporate segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses.
Corporate segment operating margin percentage increased 20 basis points to 8.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, from 7.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Small Business segment income from operations was $22 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase of $5 million, or 33.9%, compared to $17 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Small business segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars as a result of sales volume.
Small Business segment operating margin percentage increased 110 basis points to 6.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, from 5.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Public segment income from operations was $72 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase of $11 million, or 18.1%, compared to $61 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Public segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher Gross profit dollars as a result of sales volume.
Public segment operating margin percentage increased 50 basis points to 5.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, from 5.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by the benefit of lower sales payroll expenses as a percentage of Net sales and a higher mix of net service contract revenue.
Other income from operations was $20 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase of $7 million, or 56.1%, compared to $13 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Other operating margin percentage increased 70 basis points to 4.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, from 3.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no extinguishments of long-term debt compared to the same period in 2017 when we incurred a net loss on extinguishment of long-term debt of $57 million.
For information regarding our debt, see Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Income tax expense was $39 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to $16 million for the same period of the prior year.
The higher effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the same period of the prior year was primarily attributable to lower excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation and a higher effective net state income tax rate, primarily due to the reduced US federal benefit partially offset by the reduction in the US federal statutory rate.
We have included reconciliations of Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and consolidated Net sales growth on a constant currency basis for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 below.
EBITDA is defined as consolidated net income before interest expense, net, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization.
Adjusted EBITDA margin is defined as Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Net sales.
Consolidated Net sales growth on a constant currency basis is defined as consolidated Net sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency translation on net sales compared to the prior period.
Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and consolidated Net sales growth on a constant currency basis are considered non-GAAP financial measures.
Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance or financial position that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally included or excluded in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Non-GAAP measures used by management may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA is a measure in the credit agreement governing our Term Loan used to evaluate our ability to make certain investments, incur additional debt, and make restricted payments, such as dividends and share repurchases, as well as whether we are required to make additional principal prepayments on the Term Loan beyond the quarterly amortization payments.
For further details regarding the Term Loan, see Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Non-GAAP net income was $163 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase of $41 million, or 33.6%, compared to $122 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
of global intangible low tax income (“GILTI”) on equity-based compensation and amortization of intangibles.
Adjusted EBITDA was $280 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase of $30 million, or 11.9%, compared to $250 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
As a percentage of Net sales, Adjusted EBITDA was 7.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 7.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Consolidated Net sales increased $350 million, or 10.8%, to $3,606 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to $3,256 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Consolidated Net sales on a constant currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign currency translation, increased $315 million, or 9.6%.
We finance our operations and capital expenditures with internally generated cash from operations.
As of March 31, 2018, we also have $987 million of availability for borrowings under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility and an additional £50 million ($70 million at March 31, 2018) under the CDW UK revolving credit facility.
Our liquidity and borrowing plans are established to align with our financial and strategic planning processes and ensure we have the necessary funding to meet our operating commitments, which primarily include the purchase of inventory, payroll and general expenses.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we repurchased 2 million shares of our common stock for $109 million under the previously announced share repurchase program.
For more information on our share repurchase program, see Part II, Item 2, Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
On May 2, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.21 per common share.
The dividend will be paid on June 11, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 25, 2018.
In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock will be limited by restrictions on our ability to pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders and on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us, in each case, under the terms of our current and any future agreements governing our indebtedness.
The cash conversion cycle decreased to 17 days at March 31, 2018 compared to 19 days at March 31, 2017 as DSO and DPO each increased 3 days compared to March 31, 2017 and DIO decreased 2 days.
The increase in DSO was primarily driven by higher Net sales and related Accounts receivable for third-party services such as software as a service, software assurance and warranties.
These services have an unfavorable impact on DSO as the receivable is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet on a gross basis while the corresponding sales amount in the Consolidated Statement of Operations is recorded on a net basis.
This also results in a favorable impact on DPO as the payable is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet without a corresponding Cost of sales in the Statement of Operations because the cost paid to the vendor or third-party service provider is recorded as a reduction to Net sales.
Capital expenditures were $16 million and $20 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The decrease in capital expenditures is primarily due to the timing of investments for improvements to our information technology systems.
Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $231 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year.
The decrease was primarily driven by changes in Accounts payable-inventory financing, which resulted in a decrease in cash used in financing activities of $161 million, and by share repurchases during the three months ended March 31, 2018, which resulted in a decrease in cash used in financing activities of $66 million.
For more information on our share repurchase program, see Part II, Item 2, Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The decrease in cash used in Accounts payable-inventory financing was primarily driven by the termination of one of our inventory financing agreements in the fourth quarter of 2016, with amounts owed subsequently reported as Accounts payable - trade on the Consolidated Balance Sheet beginning in 2017.
As of March 31, 2018, we had total indebtedness of $3.2 billion, of which $1.5 billion was secured indebtedness.
At March 31, 2018, we were in compliance with the covenants under our various credit agreements and indentures.
The amount of restricted payment capacity for the CDW UK Term Loan was $139 million at March 31, 2018.
For additional details regarding our debt and refinancing activities, refer to Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
We have entered into agreements with certain financial intermediaries to facilitate the purchase of inventory from various suppliers under certain terms and conditions.
These amounts are classified separately as Accounts payable-inventory financing on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We do not incur any interest expense associated with these agreements as balances are paid when they are due.
For further details, see Note 3 (Inventory Financing Agreements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Except as disclosed under Note 13 (Subsequent Events) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements, there have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The information set forth in Note 10 (Commitments and Contingencies) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we adopted the requirements of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
See Note 1 (Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our new revenue recognition critical accounting policy.
The information set forth in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
We claim the protection of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for all forward-looking statements in this report.
We caution you that the important factors referenced above may not contain all of the factors that are important to you.
The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law.
