This ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
The estimate of expected credit losses will require considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts.
This ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses.
Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, as used in this "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the terms "we," "us," "the Company," "our," "CDW" and similar terms refer to CDW Corporation and its subsidiaries.
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report and with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.
See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this report are forward-looking statements.
These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies.
We claim the protection of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for all forward-looking statements in this report.
However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements.
Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will achieve those plans, intentions or expectations.
These factors include, among others, global and regional economic and political conditions; decreases in spending on technology products and services; CDW's relationships with vendor partners and availability of their products; continued innovations in hardware, software and services offerings by CDW's vendor partners; substantial competition that could reduce CDW's market share; CDW's substantial indebtedness and ability to generate sufficient cash to service such indebtedness; restrictions imposed by agreements relating to CDW's indebtedness on its operations and liquidity; changes in, or the discontinuation of, CDW's share repurchase program or dividend payments; the continuing development, maintenance and operation of CDW's information technology systems; potential breaches of data security and failure to protect our information technology systems from cybersecurity threats; potential failures to comply with Public segment contracts or applicable laws and regulations; potential failures to provide high-quality services to CDW's customers; potential losses of any key personnel; potential interruptions of the flow of products from suppliers; potential adverse occurrences at one of CDW's primary facilities or customer data centers; increases in the cost of commercial delivery services or disruptions of those services; CDW's exposure to accounts receivable and inventory risks; fluctuations in foreign currency; future acquisitions or alliances; fluctuations in CDW's operating results; current and future legal proceedings and audits; changes in laws, including the recent US tax legislation, regulations or interpretations thereof; and other risk factors or uncertainties identified from time to time in CDW's filings with the SEC.
We caution you that the important factors referenced above may not contain all of the factors that are important to you.
In addition, we cannot assure you that we will realize the results or developments we expect or anticipate or, even if substantially realized, that they will result in the consequences or affect us or our operations in the way we expect.
The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law.
