The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
1.Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
The Company's offerings range from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.
Throughout this report, the terms the "Company" and "CDW" refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
CDW Finance Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed for the sole purpose of acting as co-issuer of certain debt obligations as described in Note 13 (Supplemental Guarantor Information) and does not hold any material assets or engage in any business activities or operations.
The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of June 30, 2018 and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial statements.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the requirements of Topic 606 utilizing the full retrospective method as discussed in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements).
Prior period amounts have been adjusted accordingly.
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.
Except as noted above for the adoption of Topic 606, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the six months ended June 30, 2018.
The Company is a primary distribution channel for a large group of vendors and suppliers, including original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and wholesale distributors.
The Company is the principal in the transaction and recognizes revenue for drop-shipment arrangements on a gross basis.
The Company recognizes revenue from these transactions when control has passed to the customer, which is usually upon delivery of the product to the customer.
For these transactions, the Company deems that control passes to the customer when the product is ready for delivery.
The Company's vendor partners warrant most of the products the Company sells.
The warranties are not sold separately and only provide assurance that products will conform with the manufacturer's specifications.
These extended warranties are sold separately and provide the customer with a service in addition to assurance that the product will function as expected.
The Company considers these service-type warranties to be separate performance obligations from the underlying product.
For service-type warranties, the Company is arranging for those services to be provided by the third-party and therefore is acting as an agent in the transaction and records revenue on a net basis at the point of sale.
Revenues from most software license sales are recognized as a single performance obligation on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in these transactions at the point the software license is delivered to the customer.
The Company evaluates whether the software assurance is a separate performance obligation by assessing if the third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software itself.
If the Company determines that the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software license, the software license and the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance are recognized as a single performance obligation.
The value of the product is primarily the accompanying support delivered by a third-party and therefore the Company is acting as an agent in these transactions and recognizes them on a net basis at the point the associated software license is delivered to the customer.
For software licenses where the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is not critical or essential to the core functionality, the software assurance is recognized as a separate performance obligation, with the associated revenue recognized on a net basis at the point the related software license is delivered to the customer.
For additional details regarding the accounting for bundled arrangements, see "Revenue Recognition for Bundled Arrangements" below.
SaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to offer the Company's customers access to software in the cloud that enhances office productivity, provides security or assists in collaboration.
IaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to enable customers to access data center functionality in a cloud-based solution, including storage, computing and networking.
The Company recognizes revenue for cloud computing solutions for arrangements with one-time invoicing to the customer at the time of invoice on a net basis as the Company is acting as an agent in the transaction.
For monthly subscription-based arrangements, the Company is acting as an agent in the transaction and recognizes revenue as it invoices the customer for its monthly usage on a net basis.
Revenues from the sale of data center services, such as managed and remote managed services, server co-location, internet connectivity and data backup and storage provided by the Company, are recognized over the period the service is provided.
Most hosting and managed service obligations are based on the quantity and pricing parameters established in the agreement.
As the customer receives the benefit of the service each month, the Company recognizes the respective revenue on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in the transaction.
Additionally, the Company's managed services team provides project support to customers that are billed on a fixed fee basis.
The Company is acting as the principal in the transaction and recognizes revenue on a gross basis based on the total number of hours incurred for the period over the total expected hours for the project.
Total expected hours to complete the project is updated for each period and best represents the transfer of control of the service to the customer.
The Company's customers are offered the opportunity by certain of its vendors to purchase software licenses and software assurance under enterprise agreements ("EAs"), referred to as services in this paragraph.
The Company's performance obligations are satisfied at the time of the sale.
In other EA transactions, the Company is responsible for fulfilling the promised services to the customer and providing remedy or refund for work if the customer is not satisfied with the delivered services, has inventory risk in the arrangement and has full control to set the price for the customer.
This results in the Company acting as a principal in the agreement.
directly, paying resellers an agency fee or commission on these sales.
The Company also sells some of its products and services as part of bundled contract arrangements containing multiple deliverables, which may include a combination of products and services.
The Company excludes amounts collected on behalf of third-parties, such as sales taxes, when determining the transaction price.
For certain performance obligations, the Company will use a combination of methods to estimate the standalone selling price.
When evidence from recent transactions is not available to confirm that the prices are representative of the standalone selling price, an expected cost plus a margin approach is used.
The Company performs an analysis of the estimated number of days of sales in-transit to customers at the end of each reporting period based on a weighted-average analysis of commercial delivery terms that include drop-shipment arrangements.
The Company's typical shipping terms are F.O.B.
destination, which results in shipping being performed before the customer obtains control of the product.
The Company estimates variable consideration at the most likely amount to which it is expected to be entitled.
When a contract results in revenue being recognized in excess of the amount the Company has the right to invoice to the customer, a contract asset is recorded on the balance sheet.
Contract assets are comprised primarily of professional services with fixed fee arrangements.
Contract liabilities consist of payments received from customers, or such consideration that is contractually due, in advance of providing the product or performing services.
Contract liabilities are comprised primarily of professional services with fixed fee arrangements, bill-and-hold transactions where control has not passed to the customer and certain governmental contracts.
Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the point of sale (or in accordance with the Statement of Work for services) for the total amount payable by the customer to the Company for sale of goods.
Any incremental direct costs of obtaining a contract, primarily sales commissions, are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortized over the period of contract performance.
The Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts.
The Company has elected to use the practical expedient for its performance obligations table to show only those contracts that are longer than 12 months at the time of contract inception and those contracts that are non-cancelable.
annual renewals, the Company has excluded these contracts since there is only a one-year legal obligation.
Typically, the only contracts that are longer than 12 months in duration are related to the Company's professional and managed services business.
The Company requests payments for its products and services at the point of sale.
The Company generally does not enter into any long-term financing arrangements or payment plans with customers or contracts with customers that have non-cash consideration.
The ASU eliminates the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness for cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, and generally requires the entire change in the fair value of a hedging instrument to be presented in the same income statement line as the hedged item.
The ASU also simplifies certain documentation and assessment requirements, and will incorporate new disclosure requirements and amendments to existing disclosures.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the ASU will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
This ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the ASU will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), requiring lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The Company is in the process of evaluating its identified leases.
Although the Company is currently evaluating the provisions of the ASU to determine how it will be affected, the primary impact to the Company of the new ASU will be to record assets and liabilities for current operating leases, which are principally related to the Company's real estate portfolio.
For additional details, see Note 1 (Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies).
The Company has entered into agreements with certain financial intermediaries to facilitate the purchase of inventory from various suppliers under certain terms and conditions, as described below.
These amounts are classified separately as Accounts payable-inventory financing on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company does not incur any interest expense associated with these agreements as balances are paid when they are due.
The Company's contract liabilities consist of payments received from customers, or such consideration that is contractually due, in advance of providing the product or performing services.
The Company's contract liabilities are reported in a net position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the contract liability balance was $170 million and $159 million, respectively.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized revenue of $116 million and $99 million, respectively, related to its contract liabilities.
For more information regarding the Company's performance obligations, see Note 1 (Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies).
The following table represents the total transaction price for the remaining performance obligations as of June 30, 2018 related to non-cancelable contracts longer than 12 months in duration that is expected to be recognized over future periods.
The Company's indebtedness creates interest rate risk on its variable-rate debt.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate risk.
The valuation of the interest rate cap agreements is derived by using a discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash receipts that would occur if variable interest rates rise above the strike rates of the caps.
This analysis reflects the contractual terms of the interest rate cap agreements, including the period to maturity, and uses observable market-based inputs, including LIBOR curves and implied volatilities.
The Company also incorporates insignificant credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect the respective counterparty's nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements.
For additional details, see Note 6 (Long-Term Debt).
The interest rate cap agreements are designated as cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss and is subsequently reclassified into Interest expense in the period when the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings.
If a derivative is deemed to be ineffective, the ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative is recognized directly into earnings.
The Company's interest rate cap agreements were deemed effective during both the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, and the Company expects the derivatives will continue to be effective for the next twelve months.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $2 million and $5 million, respectively, net of a tax expense for the effective portion of the interest rate cap agreements into Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company recorded a loss of $1 million and $2 million respectively, net of a tax benefit, for the effective portion of the interest rate cap agreements into Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company reclassified $1 million and $2 million, respectively, from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings within Interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The Company expects to reclassify $5 million from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into Interest expense, net during the next twelve months.
Prior to the election of hedge accounting treatment during the first quarter of 2017, the Company recognized less than $1 million of Interest income during the six months ended June 30, 2017 in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations related to the changes in the fair value of the interest rate cap agreements.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Loan, less than $1 million of undrawn letters of credit, $357 million reserved for the floorplan sub-facility and a borrowing base of $1.8 billion, which is based on the amount of eligible inventory and accounts receivable balances as of May 31, 2018.
Borrowings under the Revolving Loan are limited by the borrowing base.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company could have borrowed up to an additional $1.1 billion under the Revolving Loan.
Borrowings are also limited by a minimum liquidity condition, which provides that, if excess cash availability is less than the lower of (i) $125 million and (ii) the greater of (a) 10.0% of the borrowing base, and (b) $100 million, the lenders are not required to lend additional amounts under the Revolving Loan unless the consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined, is at least 1.00 to 1.00.
Borrowings under the Revolving Loan bear interest at a variable interest rate plus an applicable margin.
The interest rate margin is based on one of two indices, either (i) LIBOR or (ii) the Alternate Base Rate ("ABR"), with the ABR being the greater of (a) the prime rate, (b) the federal funds effective rate plus 50 basis points or (c) the one-month LIBOR plus 1.00%.
During the six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company amended, extended and increased its prior revolving loan ("Prior Revolving Loan") and recorded a loss on extinguishment of long-term debt of $1 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations, representing a write-off of a portion of unamortized deferred financing fees.
Fees of $4 million related to the Prior Revolving Loan were capitalized as deferred financing fees and are being amortized over the five-year term of the facility on a straight-line basis.
These deferred financing fees are recorded in the Other assets line on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Borrowings under the Term Loan are payable quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December.
The Company is required to pay quarterly principal installments of $4 million with the remaining principal amount payable on the maturity date of August 17, 2023.
During the six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company amended its prior $1.5 billion senior secured term loan facility ("Prior Term Loan Facility") and recorded a loss on extinguishment of long-term debt of $14 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
This loss represented the write-off of a portion of the unamortized deferred financing fees of $5 million and unamortized discount related to the Prior Term Loan Facility of $9 million.
In connection with the issuance of the Term Loan, the Company incurred and recorded $2 million in deferred financing fees.
As of June 30, 2018, the outstanding principal amount of the CDW UK Term Loan facility ("CDW UK Term Loan") was £56 million ($74 million at June 30, 2018), excluding £1 million ($1 million at June 30, 2018) of deferred financing fees.
Borrowings under the CDW UK Term Loan bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin, payable quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December.
As of June 30, 2018, an interest rate of 1.94% was in effect, which represents LIBOR plus a 1.40% margin.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company had £10 million ($13 million at June 30, 2018) of outstanding borrowings under the CDW UK Revolving Credit Facility.
As of June 30, 2018, the outstanding principal amount of the 2023 Senior Notes was $525 million.
5.5% Senior Notes due 2024 ("2024 Senior Notes")
As of June 30, 2018, the outstanding principal amount of the 2024 Senior Notes was $575 million.
As of June 30, 2018, the outstanding principal amount of the 2025 Senior Notes was $600 million.
During the six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company completed the issuance of the 2025 Senior Notes at par.
The proceeds from the issuance of the 2025 Senior Notes along with cash on hand and proceeds from Revolving Loan borrowings were deposited to redeem all of the then remaining $600 million aggregate principal amount of the 2022 Senior Notes ("2022 Senior Notes").
In connection with this redemption, the Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of long-term debt of $43 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the six months ended June 30, 2017.
This loss represents $37 million in redemption premium and $6 million for the write-off of the remaining deferred financing fees related to the 2022 Senior Notes.
CDW LLC and CDW Finance Corporation are the co-issuers of the 2023, 2024 and 2025 Senior Notes ("Senior Notes").
The obligations under the Term Loan, the Revolving Loan and the Senior Notes are guaranteed by Parent and each of CDW LLC's direct and indirect, wholly owned, US subsidiaries (the "Guarantors").
The Revolving Loan is collateralized by a first priority interest in inventory (excluding inventory collateralized under the inventory floorplan arrangements as described in Note 3 (Inventory Financing Agreements)), deposits and accounts receivable and by a second priority interest in substantially all US assets.
The Term Loan is collateralized by a second priority interest in substantially all inventory (excluding inventory collateralized under the inventory floorplan arrangements as described in Note 3 (Inventory Financing Agreements)), deposits and accounts receivable and by a first priority interest in substantially all other US assets.
The indenture governing each of the Senior Notes do not contain any financial covenants.
The CDW UK Term Loan imposes restrictions on CDW UK's ability to transfer funds to the Company through the payment of dividends, repayment of intercompany loans, advances or subordinated debt that require, among other things, the maintenance of a minimum net leverage ratio.
As of June 30, 2018, the amount of restricted payment capacity under the CDW UK Term Loan was £101 million ($133 million at June 30, 2018).
The Company did not adjust any of the provisional amounts during the three or six months ended June 30, 2018.
Income tax expense was $57 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to $54 million for the same period of the prior year.
Income tax expense was $96 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to $71 million for the same period of the prior year.
On February 14, 2018, the Company retired 109,207 shares of its treasury stock.
On December 31, 2017 the shares were acquired in satisfaction of withholding taxes which were paid by the Company on behalf of coworkers under the Performance Share Awards program.
On December 31, 2017, 321,880 Performance Share Units ("PSUs") under the 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan vested, representing a vesting rate for the 2015-2017 performance period of 192.0% of target.
The PSUs had a weighted-average grant-date fair value of $37.84 per unit.
This amount is reported as a financing activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and as an increase to Accumulated Deficit in the Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
On December 31, 2016, 748,855 PSUs under the 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan vested, representing a vesting rate for the 2014-2016 performance period of 193.5% of target.
This amount is reported as a financing activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and as an increase to Accumulated Deficit in the Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the six months ended June 30, 2017.
On June 26, 2017, an aggregate of 997,450 Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") under the 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan vested.
The RSUs had a weighted-average grant-date fair value of $17.04 per unit.
This amount is reported as a financing activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and as an increase to Accumulated Deficit in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity for the six months ended June 30, 2017.
The numerator for both basic and diluted earnings per share is Net income.
In addition, the Company is subject to indemnification claims under various contracts.
In such cases, certain pre-petition payments received by the Company could be considered preference items and subject to return to the bankruptcy administrator.
However, the ultimate resolutions of these proceedings and matters are inherently unpredictable.
The following table presents Net sales by major category for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
Categories are based upon internal classifications.
The 2023 Senior Notes, the 2024 Senior Notes and the 2025 Senior Notes are guaranteed by the Parent and each of CDW LLC’s direct and indirect, 100% owned, domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantor Subsidiaries").
All guarantees by the Parent and the Guarantor Subsidiaries are and were joint and several, and full and unconditional; provided that guarantees by the Guarantor Subsidiaries are subject to certain customary release provisions contained in the indentures governing the 2023 Senior Notes, the 2024 Senior Notes and the 2025 Senior Notes.
The following tables set forth Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Consolidating Statements of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, Condensed Consolidating Statements of Comprehensive Income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 and Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, in accordance with Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X.
The consolidating financial information includes the accounts of CDW Corporation (the "Parent Guarantor"), which has no independent assets or operations, the accounts of CDW LLC (the "Subsidiary Issuer"), the combined accounts of the Guarantor Subsidiaries, the accounts of the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries, and the accounts of CDW Finance Corporation (the "Co-Issuer") for the periods indicated.
The information was prepared on the same basis as the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Item 1A.
See "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
