Part II - Other Information 



 Item 1.Legal Proceedings 



We are not presently involved in any material litigation. However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. See Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information about legal proceedings. 



 Item 1A.Risk Factors 



Additional risk factors are discussed in Part I, Item 1A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 and in “Risk Factors Relating to the Proposal to Approve the Asset Sale” of our Definitive Proxy Statement filed on November 6, 2017. Except as discussed below, there have been no material changes to our risk factors as previously disclosed. 



The amount of net proceeds that we receive from the sale of the Content Delivery business and Real-Time business remains subject to uncertainties. 



Pursuant to the CDN APA, the purchase price payable by Vecima is subject to adjustment based on a net working capital target of $2.64 million. In addition, $1.45 million of the purchase price payable by Vecima at closing has been placed into escrow and is subject to loss, in whole or in part after the closing, if Vecima successfully asserts claims for indemnification pursuant to the indemnification provisions of the CDN APA. Furthermore, we may have unforeseen liabilities and expenses that must be satisfied from the after-tax net proceeds of the Content Delivery business sale, leaving less to fund our remaining operations. In addition, $2 million of the purchase price payable by the RT Purchaser at closing of the sale of the Real-Time business was placed into escrow and remains subject to loss, in whole or in part, if the RT Purchaser successfully asserts claims for indemnification pursuant to the indemnification provisions of the Real-Time APA. 



Stockholders are not guaranteed any of the proceeds from the sales of the Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses. 



Our Board of Directors has instructed the Investment Committee to evaluate options to maximize the value of our remaining assets, including identifying potential opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses that provide opportunities for appreciation in value. If the Investment Committee is unable to identify a suitable acquisition target that is appropriately valued, we may consider alternatives for returning capital to stockholders while we wind up our affairs. If we wind up our affairs and liquidate under applicable law, our net operating loss carryforwards will be forfeited. 



Management and the Board of Directors could spend or invest the Company’s capital in ways with which our stockholders may not agree. 



Our management could spend or invest the Company’s capital in ways with which our stockholders may not agree. Management and the Board of Directors may authorize such spending or investment without seeking stockholder approval. The investment of these proceeds may not yield a favorable return. We are, in the context of current cash balance, seeking to increase our investment yields from a historic rate of 1% to 1.5%. Investments which yield a higher return also subject us to incremental risk over government securities other existing investments. 



There can be no assurances that we will be successful in reinvesting the Company’s assets. 



The process to identify potential investment opportunities and acquisition targets, to investigate and evaluate the future returns therefrom and business prospects thereof and to negotiate definitive agreements with respect to such transactions on mutually acceptable terms can be time consuming and costly. We are likely to encounter intense competition from other companies with similar business objectives to ours, including private equity and venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, investment firms with significantly greater financial and other resources and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these companies are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations. 



In addition, we will incur operating expenses, resulting from payroll, rent and other overhead and professional fees, while we are evaluating opportunities to invest the proceeds of the sales of the Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses. 





We may consider potential acquisition candidates in different industries, and stockholders may have no basis at this time to ascertain the merits or risks of any business that we may ultimately operate.  





Resources will be expended in researching potential acquisitions and investments that might not be consummated. 



The investigation of target businesses and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention in addition to costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination or other investment the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific opportunity, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control. 



Subsequent to an acquisition, we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our share price, which could cause stockholders to lose some or all of their investments. 



Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure stockholders that this diligence will identify all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary reasonable amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. As a result of these factors, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even if our due diligence successfully identifies certain risks, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-Divestiture debt financing. Accordingly, stockholders could suffer a significant reduction in the value of their shares. 



We may issue additional shares of common stock or other securities to complete business combinations or under employee incentive plans. Any such issuances would dilute the interest of our stockholders and likely present other risks.  





 ·may significantly dilute stockholders’ equity interests; 



 ·may subordinate the rights of holders of shares of our common stock if shares of preferred stock are issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; 



 ·could cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of our common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and 



 ·may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 





We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition and thus negatively impact the value of our stockholders’ investment in us.  





 ·default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; 



 ·acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach covenants that require the maintenance of financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; 



 ·our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; 



 ·our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; 



 ·our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; 



 ·using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; 



 ·limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; 



 ·increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and 



 ·limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. 



We may have a limited ability to assess the management of a prospective target business and, as a result, may effect a business combination with a target business whose management may not have the skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company. 



When evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination with a prospective target business, our ability to assess the target business’s management may be limited due to a lack of time, resources or information. Our assessment of the capabilities of the target’s management, therefore, may prove to be incorrect and such management may lack the skills, qualifications or abilities we suspected. Should the target’s management not possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to manage a public company, the operations and profitability of the post-combination business may be negatively impacted. 



We may attempt to complete business combinations with private companies about which little information is available, which may result in a business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we suspected, if at all.  



In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effectuate business combinations with privately held companies. By definition, very little public information exists about private companies, and we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information, which may result in a business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we expect, if at all. 



We may make acquisitions where we do not own all or a majority of the target enterprise. 



We may make acquisitions where do not own all or a majority of the target enterprise. We may engage in such acquisitions or make such investments where we desire the target management to continue to have a significant equity incentive to grow and ensure the profitability of the target business. We may also make such acquisitions or investments where we do not have sufficient financial resources to acquire all of the equity in the target company or where the target has price requirements that we are unwilling to meet at the time of the acquisition or investment. Our minority or less than 100% ownership subjects us to risks that we do not control the target company and its results of operations, business condition or prospects may be materially adversely impacted by the decisions of the other equity owners or the difficulty of negotiating among equity owners. 





We may be unsuccessful in appealing the failure to satisfy the continued listing standards of The NASDAQ Global Market. 



On January 4, 2018, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of The Nasdaq Stock Market notifying us that it believes that we no longer have an operating business following the closing of the sale of the Content Delivery business assets and as a consequence we are now considered by the Nasdaq to be a “public shell” under the Nasdaq criteria. As such, the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department determined the continued listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market is no longer warranted. We dispute the Nasdaq’s determination and have taken the necessary steps to appeal the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department’s determination to delist our securities by requesting a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Listing Panel”) and tendering the appropriate fee. Our common stock will continue to trade on the Nasdaq Global Market until our appeal is adjudicated before the Listing Panel. There can be no assurances that our appeal will be successful. In the event that we are unable to satisfy the continued listing standards of the Nasdaq Global Market, our common stock may be delisted from that market. Any delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market could adversely affect our ability to attract new investors, decrease the liquidity of our outstanding shares of common stock, reduce our flexibility to raise additional capital, reduce the price at which our common stock trades and increase the transaction costs inherent in trading such shares with overall negative effects for our stockholders. In addition, delisting of our common stock could deter broker-dealers from making a market in or otherwise seeking or generating interest in our common stock, and might deter certain institutions and persons from investing in our securities at all. For these reasons and others, delisting could adversely affect the price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. A hearing before the Listing Panel is scheduled for February 15, 2018 and we expect a decision from the Listing Panel within or up to thirty (30) days of the hearing. 



We will be unable to compete with the Content Delivery business or the Real-Time business for a period of three years after the date of the closing of the sale of each respective business. 





 ·engage in any activity that competes with the Content Delivery business as it was conducted by us prior to the closing of the sale of the Content Delivery business or the Real-Time business as it was conducted by us prior to the closing of the sale of the Real-Time business; 



 ·solicit or recruit any employees transferred to Vecima or the RT Purchaser; or 



 ·own, manage, operate, assist, invest in or acquire any person or entity that competes with the Content Delivery business or the Real-Time business (except for ownership of 5% or less of the outstanding securities of a publicly traded entity). 



The CDN APA may expose us to contingent liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 



We have agreed to indemnify Vecima for breaches of any representation, warranty, or covenant made by us in the CDN APA, for losses arising out of or in connection with excluded assets or excluded liabilities, and for certain other matters. Indemnification claims by Vecima would reduce the amount of the escrow that we receive and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Other than in the event of fraud or willful misconduct, we will not be obligated to indemnify Vecima for any breach of the representations, warranties or covenants made by us under the CDN APA until the aggregate amount of claims for indemnification exceed $100 thousand. In the event that claims for indemnification for breach of most of the representations and warranties made by us under the CDN APA exceed this threshold, we will be obligated to indemnify Vecima for any damages or loss resulting from such breach up to five percent (5%) of the final purchase price to be paid by Vecima pursuant to the CDN APA. 



The Asset Purchase Agreement between the Company and the RT Purchaser may expose us to contingent liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 



We have agreed to indemnify the RT Purchaser for breaches of any representation, warranty, or covenant made by us in the Asset Purchase Agreement between us and the RT Purchaser, for losses arising out of or in connection with excluded assets or excluded liabilities, and for certain other matters. Indemnification claims by the RT Purchaser would reduce the amount of the escrow that we receive and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Other than in the event of fraud or willful misconduct or a breach of certain fundamental representations, we will not be obligated to indemnify the RT Purchaser for any breach of the representations, warranties or covenants made by us under the Real-Time APA until the aggregate amount of claims for indemnification exceed $350 thousand. In the event that claims for indemnification for breach of most of the representations and warranties made by us under the Real-Time APA exceed this threshold, we will be obligated to indemnify the RT Purchaser for any damages or loss resulting from such breach up to $2 million, provided, however, that this cap does not apply to (i) fraud or (ii) breaches or inaccuracies of any of the fundamental representations identified in the Real-Time APA. 





We may be considered a shell company under federal securities laws in the future, which will subject us to additional costs and disclosure requirements and may have an adverse affect on stockholders. 



Under Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, a shell company is any company with (i) no or nominal operations; and (ii) either (A) no or nominal assets, (B) assets consisting solely of cash and cash equivalents, or (C) assets consisting of any amount of cash and cash equivalents and nominal other assets. As of December 31, 2017, and as of the date hereof, we are not a shell company under federal securities laws because we have material GAAP assets other than cash and cash equivalents, including, as of the date hereof, (i) $3.45 million in escrow receivables related to the escrow agreements we entered into in connection the sale of the Real-Time business and Content Delivery business, (ii) $7.97 million in securities that are classified as short-term investments under GAAP, and (iii) State tax credits receivables and various other prepaid assets. If the escrow agreements terminate and the portion of the escrow funds not used to satisfy indemnification obligations of the company to the RT Purchaser and Vecima are released to us prior to the company’s consummation of a transaction with an acquisition target, our only remaining material GAAP assets other than cash and cash equivalents will be short-term investments. If the Company is required to liquidate its short-term investments under such circumstances prior to the acquisition of an operating business, we may be considered a shell company under the federal securities laws. 



Applicable securities rules prohibit shell companies from using (i) a Form S-8 registration statement to register securities pursuant to employee compensation plans for so long as we are a shell company and for a period of 60 days thereafter and (ii) Form S-3 for the registration of securities for so long as we are a shell company and for 12 months thereafter. In addition, Form 8-K requires shell companies to provide detailed disclosure immediately upon completion of a transaction that causes it to cease being a shell company rather than within 71 days after the date that the initial Form 8-K is filed, as would be the case if the company is able to consummate an acquisition while it is not a shell company. 



In addition, under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, a holder of restricted securities of a “shell company” is not allowed to resell their securities in reliance upon Rule 144 until certain conditions are satisfied. If the company becomes a shell company, holders of restricted securities issued by the company will not be able to resell their securities in reliance upon Rule 144 until all of such conditions are satisfied, which cannot occur for at least one year after the company has ceased being shell company. During such time, a holder of restricted securities issued by the company will have to rely on another exemption from registration to resell restricted securities issued by the company. 



 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



None. 



 Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities 



None. 



 Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures 



Not applicable. 



 Item 5.Other Information 



None. 





 Item 6.Exhibits 











† Indicates management contract or compensatory plan. 







SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  







Exhibit Index 











† Indicates management contract or compensatory plan. 







