AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited) 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 
AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited)  
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) 
 (in thousands)  
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
In  February 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” This guidance changes the requirements for inclusion of certain right-of-use assets and the associated lease liabilities to be included in a statement of financial position. The classification criteria maintains the distinction between finance leases and operating leases. Regarding finance leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize interest on the lease liability separate from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income, and 3) classify repayments of the principal portion of the lease liability within financing activities and payments of interest on the lease liability and variable lease payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows. Regarding operating leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term on a generally straight-line basis, and 3) classify all cash payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows. This guidance is effective for public companies for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. We previously disclosed prior to our recent acquisitions that we anticipated no material impact from adopting ASU 2016-02. However, we are in the process of updating our assessment to include the impact of our recently acquired companies. 
In  March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, “Compensation — Stock Compensation.” The standard is intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax impact, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures. The guidance is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. The standard became effective for the interim reporting period ending  June 30, 2017 and has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
In  January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other.” This guidance simplifies how an entity is required to test goodwill for impairment by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Step 2 measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of goodwill. Instead, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. This ASU also removes the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment, and if it fails that qualitative test to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. Companies are to apply the standard on a prospective basis. The guidance is effective for public companies that are an SEC filer for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted and management elected to adopt this guidance beginning with the interim period ending  June 30, 2017. The adoption of this standard has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
In  August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging.” The standard aims to align the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results for cash flow and fair value hedge accounting with risk management activities. The guidance is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted in any interim period after issuance. Management is currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. 
The Company has used the acquisition method of accounting to record the transaction in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations.” In accordance with the acquisition method, the purchase price is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values with the excess being allocated to goodwill. Factors that contributed to the recognition of goodwill include expected synergies and the trained workforce. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.  
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the sum of (a) the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and (b) the dilutive effect of potential common stock equivalents during the period. Equity awards are the only common stock equivalents currently used in our calculation and are computed using the treasury stock method. 
During the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017, there have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels within the fair value hierarchy. 
Assets held in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan 
Assets valued using Level 1 and Level 2 inputs in the table above represent assets from our non-qualified deferred compensation program. The funds in the non-qualified deferred compensation program are valued based on the number of shares in the funds using a price per share traded in an active market. 
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies. We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities. Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract. The spot rates and forward points used are an average rate from an actively traded market. At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements. 
Our long-term and short-term investment securities are accounted for as held-to-maturity securities and are carried at amortized cost. We have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity. All income generated from the held-to-maturity securities investments are recorded as interest income. 
We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), or equivalent state or local laws, for clean-up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination. Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or state regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean-up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs. At certain sites, financially responsible PRPs other than AVX also are, or have been, involved in site investigation and clean-up activities. We believe that liability resulting from these sites will be apportioned between AVX and other PRPs. 
To resolve our liability at the sites at which we have been named a PRP, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees with federal and state regulatory agencies governing the timing and nature of investigation and remediation. As is customary, the orders and decrees regarding sites where the PRPs are not themselves implementing the chosen remedy contain provisions allowing the EPA to reopen the agreement and seek additional amounts from settling PRPs in the event that certain contingencies occur, such as the discovery of significant new information about site conditions. 
On  June 3, 2010, AVX entered into an agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford, pursuant to which AVX is required to perform environmental remediation at a site referred to as the “Aerovox Site” (the “Site”), located in New Bedford, Massachusetts. AVX has substantially completed its obligations pursuant to such agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford with respect to the satisfaction of AVX’s federal law requirements. The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction over the balance of the environmental remediation at the Site. AVX has submitted its proposed remedy, but until the state has approved such proposal, AVX cannot determine if additional groundwater and soil remediation will be required, if substantial material will have to be disposed of offsite, or if additional remediation techniques will be required, any of which could result in a more extensive and costly plan of remediation. Further, the Site and the remediation  may be subject to additional scrutiny under other statutory procedures which could also add to the cost of remediation. We have a remaining accrual of $14,270 at  December 31, 2017, representing our current estimate of the potential liability related to the remaining performance of environmental remediation actions at the Site and neighboring properties using certain assumptions regarding the plan of remediation. Until all parties agree and remediation is complete, we cannot be certain there will be no additional cost relating to the Site. 
On  April 19, 2016, the Canadian Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change (the “MoE”) issued a Director’s Order naming AVX Corporation, and others, as responsible parties with respect to a location in Hamilton, Ontario that was at one time the site of operations of Aerovox Canada, a former subsidiary of Aerovox Corporation, a predecessor of AVX. This Director’s Order follows a draft order issued on  November 4, 2015. AVX has taken the position that any liability of Aerovox Canada for such site under the laws of Canada cannot be imposed on AVX. At present, it is unclear whether the MoE will seek to enforce such Canadian order against AVX, and whether, in the event it does so, AVX will have any liability under applicable law. AVX intends to contest any such course of action that  may be taken by the MoE. 
On  April 25, 2013, AVX was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Greatbatch, Inc. v. AVX Corporation. This case alleged that certain AVX products infringe on one or more of six Greatbatch patents. On  January 26, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff in the first phase of a segmented trial and a mixed verdict in the second phase of a segmented trial, and found damages to Greatbatch in the amount of $37,500. The results of the third trial have not yet been issued by the District Judge. AVX is continuing to litigate the rest of the case. 
On  September 2, 2014, a subsidiary of AVX, American Technical Ceramics (“ATC”), was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court of the Southern District of California captioned Presidio Components, Inc. v. American Technical Ceramics Corp. This case alleged that certain ATC products infringe on a Presidio patent. On  April 18, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and found damages to Presidio. On  August 17, 2016, the court issued a permanent injunction prohibiting ATC from manufacturing or selling the related products after  November 16, 2016. Subsequently, on  October 21, 2016, the Federal Circuit Court granted AVX’s request for a stay of the permanent injunction whereby ATC was allowed to continue to sell the disputed product until  March 17, 2017 to anyone who was a customer prior to  June 17, 2016. Any sales subsequent to  November 16, 2016 pursuant to the stay of the permanent injunction are subject to court mandated intellectual property damages for each product sold. In  December, 2017, a panel of the Federal Circuit vacated the damage award to Presidio, vacated the injunction, and remanded the case for further proceedings to determine damages limited to “reasonable royalties.”  
During calendar year 2014, AVX was named as a co-defendant in a series of cases filed in the United States and in the Canadian provinces of Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Manitoba alleging violations of United States, state and Canadian antitrust laws asserting that AVX and numerous other companies were participants in alleged price-fixing in the capacitor market. The cases in the United States were consolidated into the Northern District of California on  October 2, 2014. Some plaintiffs have broken off from the United States class action and filed actions on their own. The cases in Canada have not been consolidated. These cases are still in progress. AVX believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend the cases. 
Comprehensive income (loss) represents changes in equity during a period except those resulting from investments by and distributions to shareholders. The specific components include net income, pension liability and other post-retirement benefit adjustments, deferred gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on qualified foreign currency cash flow hedges. 
Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) include those that pertain to the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges. Please see Note 11 for additional information related to the amortization of prior service cost and the recognized actuarial losses, which amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the statement of operations during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017. Please see Note 12 for additional information related to realized gains and losses on derivative instruments reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017. 
The following geographic data is based upon net sales generated by operations located within particular geographic areas. Substantially all of the sales in the Americas region were generated in the United States. 
Based on current actuarial computations, during the nine months ended  December 31, 2017, we made contributions of $4,648 to the international plans. We expect to make additional contributions of approximately $1,600 to the international plans over the remainder of fiscal 2018. We made $261 in contributions to the U.S. plans during the nine months ended  December 31, 2017. We do not anticipate making additional contributions to the U.S. plans over the remainder of the fiscal year. 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the normal course of business. We use derivative instruments (forward contracts) to hedge certain foreign currency exposures as part of our risk management strategy. The objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with gains and losses on the forward contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting fair values of assets and liabilities. We do not enter into any trading or speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments. 
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities less than four months, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies. These derivative instruments are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. 
For these derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments, during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2017, net pre-tax losses of $(130) and $(943), respectively, were recognized in other comprehensive income. In addition, during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2017, net pre-tax gains (losses) of $ (805) and $1,608, respectively, were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into cost of sales (for hedging purchases), and net pretax gains (losses) of $244 and $(1,774), respectively, were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into sales (for hedging sales) in the accompanying statement of operations. 
Derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments consist primarily of forwards used to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. These hedging instruments are used to offset foreign currency changes in the fair values of the underlying assets and liabilities. The gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income in the same period as the remeasurement gains and losses of the related foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and thus naturally offset these gains and losses. At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, we had the following forward contracts that were entered into to hedge against these exposures. 
At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $193,156 and $182,680, respectively, denominated primarily in Euros, Czech Korunas, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. 
On  February 7, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a $0.115 dividend per share of common stock with respect to the quarter ended  December 31, 2017. The dividend will be paid to stockholders of record on  February 23, 2018 and will be disbursed on  March 5, 2018. 
Forward-Looking Statements 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
Results of Operations - Three Months Ended December 31, 2016 and 2017 
Our net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $93.2 million, or $0.55 per share, compared to net income of $35.5 million, or $0.21 per share, for the three months ended December 31, 2016. 
The table below represents product group revenues for the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2017. 
KDP and KCD Resale sales decreased $5.7 million, or 7.8%, to $68.2 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $73.9 million during the same period last year. This decrease is primarily a result of the gradual phase out of KDP and KCD Resale products resulting from the previously announced decision by Kyocera to market its manufactured passive component and interconnect products globally using Kyocera’s sales force rather than continuing to have AVX resell such products starting January 1, 2018. 
Income from operations was $45.3 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $50.9 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2016. This decrease was a result of the factors described above. 
In addition, on December 21, 2017, the French Parliament enacted the Finance Law for 2018, which reduces France’s statutory corporate tax rate from its present 33.33% to 25%, in stages over the next five years. This rate decrease resulted in an estimated net decrease in AVX’s French net deferred tax assets and liabilities of $14.3 million, which is also reflected as a discrete charge in this quarter’s tax provision. 
As a result of the factors discussed above, net loss for the three month period ended December 31, 2017 was $93.2 million compared to net income of $35.5 million for the same three month period last year. 
Results of Operations – Nine Months Ended December 31, 2016 and 2017 
Our net loss for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was $26.9 million, or $0.16 per share, compared to net income of $91.9 million, or $0.55 per share, for the nine months ended December 31, 2016. 
The table below represents product group revenues for the nine months ended December 31, 2016 and 2017. 
KDP and KCD Resale sales decreased $4.8 million, or 2.2%, to $212.0 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $216.8 million during the same period last year. This decrease is primarily a result of the gradual phase out of KDP and KCD Resale products resulting from the previously announced decision by Kyocera to market its manufactured passive component and interconnect products globally using Kyocera’s sales force rather than continuing to have AVX resell such products starting January 1, 2018. 
Our sales to independent electronic distributor customers represented 45.0% of total sales for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017, compared to 45.1% for the nine month period ended December 31, 2016. Overall, distributor sales activity increased when compared to the same nine month period last year as distributors increased order activity during the past several quarters in response to good end-market demand and extended product delivery lead times during the nine month period ended December 31, 2017. Our sales to distributor customers involve specific ship-and-debit and stock rotation programs for which sales allowances are recorded as reductions in sales. Such allowance charges were $22.6 million, or 4.5% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017, and $19.6 million, or 4.4% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the nine month period ended December 31, 2016. Applications under such programs for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were approximately $21.9 million and $16.4 million, respectively. 
During the nine month period ended December 31, 2016, we recorded a $3.6 million charge related to estimated environmental remediation costs resulting from legacy environmental issues at an inactive property. We did not have any similar charges in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017. 
Income from operations was $132.5 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $118.5 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2016. This increase was a result of the factors described above. 
Other income, net was $8.4 million for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $9.2 million for the same nine month period last year. This decrease was primarily due to higher foreign exchange gains resulting from currency fluctuations and a gain on the sale of an idle facility of $1.6 million for the nine month period ended December 31, 2016, partially offset by interest of $2.3 million related to refunded income taxes in the prior quarter ended September 30, 2017. 
In addition, on December 21, 2017, the French Parliament enacted the Finance Law for 2018, which reduces France’s statutory corporate tax rate from its present 33.33% to 25%, in stages over the next five years. This rate decrease resulted in an estimated net decrease in AVX’s French net deferred tax assets and liabilities of $14.3 million, which is also reflected as a discrete charge in this quarter’s tax provision. 
As a result of the factors discussed above, net loss for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 was $26.9 million compared to net income of $91.9 million for the same nine month period last year. 
Outlook 
Kyocera notified AVX pursuant to the Products Supply and Distribution Agreement in December 2016 of its intent, effective January 1, 2018, to market its manufactured passive component and interconnect products globally using Kyocera’s sales force rather than continuing to have AVX resell such products in the Americas, Europe and Asia. Kyocera will pay commissions to AVX on sales by Kyocera, in the applicable territories, of products designed into customer applications by AVX prior to January 1, 2018 of 2.0% in calendar year 2018, 1.5% in calendar year 2019, and 1.0% in calendar year 2020. Sales of Kyocera resale products were $68.2 million and $212.0 million and the related operating profit was $4.7 million and $14.0 million for the three and nine month periods ended December 31, 2017.  
AVX notified Kyocera pursuant to the Products Supply and Distribution Agreement in February 2017 of its intent, effective April 1, 2018, to market its manufactured products in Japan using AVX’s sales force rather than continuing to have Kyocera resell such products in this territory. AVX will pay commissions to Kyocera on sales by AVX, in the applicable territory, of products designed into customer applications by Kyocera prior to April 1, 2018 of 2.0% in fiscal year 2019, 1.5% in fiscal year 2020, and 1.0% in fiscal year 2021. Sales of AVX resale products by Kyocera were $6.3 million and $16.4 million for the three and nine month periods ended December 31, 2017. 
AVX has reviewed and continues to monitor the impact of Brexit. The British government will negotiate the terms of the U.K.’s future relationship with the E.U. Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the U.K. and E.U. countries and increased regulatory complexities. Our international sales are denominated in both the U.S. Dollar and currencies other than U.S. Dollars. A fluctuation of currency exchange rates may expose us to gains and losses on non-U.S. currency transactions. In addition, we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars for our financial statements. Our reported international sales and earnings could be negatively impacted during periods of foreign currency fluctuation compared to the U.S. Dollar. 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $161.0 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $160.3 million of cash provided by operating activities in the nine month period ended December 31, 2016. 
Purchases of property and equipment were $65.2 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 and $45.6 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2016. Expenditures in the current quarter were primarily made in connection with strategic building expansion and equipment purchase activities in our Fountain Inn, South Carolina facilities and our plants in the Czech Republic, Germany, El Salvador, and Malaysia. We expect to incur total capital expenditures of approximately $80.0 million in fiscal 2018. The actual amount of capital expenditures will depend upon the outlook for end-market demand and timing of capital projects. 
Commitments and Contingencies 
Please refer to Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 to this Form 10-Q for a discussion of our involvement in certain environmental and other pending legal proceedings. 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
On October 17, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of 5,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market. The repurchased shares are held as treasury stock and are available for general corporate purposes. We did not make any repurchases in the three month period ended December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, there were 3,067,074 shares that may yet be repurchased under this program. 
  AVX Corporation       
    Michael E. Hufnagel       
    Vice President of Corporate Finance        
