AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited) 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited) 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity (Unaudited) 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  
AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) 
 (in thousands) 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 
During the three month period ended  June 30, 2019, goodwill increased by $405 due to foreign currency translation. 
In  June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses: Measurements of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.” This standard requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses held at amortized cost. This new standard replaces the use of forward-looking information to estimate credit losses and requires credit losses for available for sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than a reduction in the amortized cost basis. This update is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2019. Management is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements. 
In  August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting For Implementation Costs Incurred In A Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is A Service Contract”. This guidance reduces the complexity for the accounting for costs of implementing a cloud computing service arrangement and aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license). This update is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company early adopted this standard effective  April 1, 2019, utilizing the prospective approach to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. The adoption of ASU 2018-15 has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
As discussed in Note 1, we adopted the new leasing standard using the modified retrospective approach with an effective date of  April 1, 2019. Prior year financial statements were not recast under the new standard and, therefore, those amounts are not presented below. We elected the package of transition provisions available for expired or existing contracts, which allowed us to carry forward our historical assessments of (1) whether contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification and (3) initial direct costs. 
When available, we use the rate implicit in the lease to discount lease payments to present value; however, most of our leases do not provide a readily determinable implicit rate. Therefore, we must estimate our incremental borrowing rate to discount the lease payments based on information available at lease commencement. Our incremental borrowing rate is based on a credit-adjusted risk-free rate at commencement date, which best approximates a secured rate over a similar term of lease. 
The Company paid $2,251 for its operating leases in the fiscal quarter ended  June 30, 2019, which are included in operating cash flows on the consolidated statement of cash flows. The weighted-average remaining lease term for the Company’s operating leases is 3.8 years and the weighted-average discount rate is 3.25% as of  June 30, 2019. 
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the sum of (a) the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and (b) the dilutive effect of potential common stock equivalents during the period. Stock options and unvested service-based RSU awards make up the common stock equivalents and are computed using the treasury stock method. 
The table below represents the basic and diluted earnings per share and sets forth the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding and potential common stock equivalents for the three month periods ending  June 30, 2018 and 2019. 
During the three month periods ended  March 31, 2019 and  June 30, 2019, there have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels within the fair value hierarchy. 
Assets held in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan 
Assets valued using Level 1 and Level 2 inputs in the table above represent assets from our non-qualified deferred compensation program. The funds in the non-qualified deferred compensation program are valued based on the number of shares in the funds using a price per share traded in an active market. 
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies. We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities. Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract. The spot rates and forward points used are an average rate from an actively traded market. At  March 31, 2019 and  June 30, 2019, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements. 
At  March 31, 2019 and  June 30, 2019, we classified investments in debt securities and time deposits as held-to-maturity securities. 
Our long-term and short-term investment securities are accounted for as held-to-maturity securities and are carried at amortized cost. We have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity. All income generated from the held-to-maturity securities investments are recorded as interest income. 
We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), or equivalent non-U.S., state or local laws, for clean-up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination. Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or non-U.S., state or local regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean-up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs. At certain sites, financially responsible PRPs other than AVX also are, or have been, involved in site investigation and clean-up activities. We believe that liability resulting from these sites will be apportioned between AVX and other PRPs. 
To resolve our liability at the sites at which we have been named a PRP, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees with federal and state regulatory agencies governing the timing and nature of investigation and remediation. As is customary, the orders and decrees regarding sites where the PRPs are not themselves implementing the chosen remedy contain provisions allowing the EPA to reopen the agreement and seek additional amounts from settling PRPs in the event that certain contingencies occur, such as the discovery of significant new information about site conditions. 
On  June 3, 2010, AVX entered into an agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford, pursuant to which AVX is required to perform environmental remediation at a site referred to as the “Aerovox Site” (the “Site”), located in New Bedford, Massachusetts. AVX has substantially completed its obligations pursuant to such agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford with respect to the satisfaction of AVX’s federal law requirements. The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction over the balance of the environmental remediation at the Site. AVX has submitted its proposed remedy, but until the state has approved such proposal, AVX cannot determine if additional groundwater and soil remediation will be required, if substantial material will have to be disposed of offsite, or if additional remediation techniques will be required, any of which could result in a more extensive and costly plan of remediation. Further, the Site and the remediation  may be subject to additional scrutiny under other statutory procedures which could also add to the cost of remediation. During the year ended  March 31, 2019 we increased our estimated accrual for work to be done at the Site by $8,312 pursuant to discussions with the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection and our environmental engineers. We have a remaining accrual of $22,043 at  June 30, 2019, representing our current estimate of the potential liability related to the remaining performance of environmental remediation actions at the Site and neighboring properties using certain assumptions regarding the plan of remediation. Until all parties agree and remediation is complete, we cannot be certain there will be no additional cost relating to the Site. 
On  April 19, 2016, the Canadian Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change (the “MoE”) issued a Director’s Order naming AVX Corporation, and others, as responsible parties with respect to a location in Hamilton, Ontario that was at one time the site of operations of Aerovox Canada, a former subsidiary of Aerovox Corporation, a predecessor of AVX. AVX has taken the position that any liability of Aerovox Canada for such site under the laws of Canada cannot be imposed on AVX. At present, it is unclear whether the MoE will seek to enforce such Canadian order against AVX, and whether, in the event it does so, AVX will have any liability under applicable law. AVX intends to contest any such course of action that  may be taken by the MoE. 
In connection with the same location, Union Gas Limited and Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company filed suits in the Superior Court of Justice for Ontario, Canada, against AVX Corporation, Aerovox Corp. and Cooper Industries, LLC seeking to recover the costs of remediation of the site and for damages associated with alleged contamination of the site. Those suits were filed on  April 18, 2018, but not served on AVX until  October 11, 2018, and are in their initial stages. AVX is considering its legal options but intends to vigorously defend these matters. 
On  September 2, 2014, a subsidiary of AVX, American Technical Ceramics (“ATC”), was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court of the Southern District of California captioned Presidio Components, Inc. v. American Technical Ceramics Corp. This case alleged that certain ATC products infringe on a Presidio patent. On  April 18, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and found damages to Presidio. On  August 17, 2016, the court issued a permanent injunction prohibiting ATC from manufacturing or selling the related products after  November 16, 2016. Subsequently, on  October 21, 2016, the Federal Circuit Court granted AVX’s request for a stay of the permanent injunction whereby ATC was allowed to continue to sell the disputed product until  March 17, 2017 to anyone who was a customer prior to  June 17, 2016. Any sales subsequent to  November 16, 2016 pursuant to the stay of the permanent injunction were subject to court mandated intellectual property damages for each product sold. In  December 2017, a panel of the Federal Circuit vacated the damage award to Presidio, vacated the injunction, and remanded the case for further proceedings to determine damages limited to “reasonable royalties” and to reconsider the requested injunction in light of its opinion and any additional facts. In  June 2018, the District Court set the amount of royalties and re-issued the injunction. An appeal has been filed from both decisions. 
During calendar year 2014, AVX was named as a co-defendant in a series of cases filed in the United States and in the Canadian provinces of Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Manitoba alleging violations of United States, state and Canadian antitrust laws asserting that AVX and numerous other companies were participants in alleged price-fixing in the capacitor market. The cases in the United States were consolidated into the Northern District of California on  October 2, 2014. Some plaintiffs have broken off from the United States class action and filed actions on their own, although AVX is not named in all of these independent actions. The cases in Canada have not been consolidated. These cases are still in progress. AVX believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend the cases. 
Comprehensive income (loss) represents changes in equity during a period except those resulting from investments by and distributions to shareholders. The specific components include net income, pension liability and other post-retirement benefit adjustments, deferred gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on qualified foreign currency cash flow hedges. 
We evaluate performance of our segments based upon sales and operating profit. There are no intersegment revenues. We allocate the costs of shared resources between segments based on each segment’s usage of the shared resources. Cash, accounts receivable, investments in securities, and certain other assets, which are centrally managed, are not readily allocable to operating segments. 
The following geographic data is based upon net sales generated by operations located within particular geographic areas. Substantially all of the sales in the Americas region were generated in the United States. 
Based on current actuarial computations, during the three months ended  June 30, 2019, we made contributions of $646 to the international plans. We expect to make additional contributions of approximately $451 to the international plans over the remainder of fiscal 2020. We made no contributions to the U.S. plans during the three months ended  June 30, 2019. We expect to make no additional contributions to the U.S. plans the remainder of fiscal 2020. 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the normal course of business. We use derivative instruments (forward contracts) to hedge certain foreign currency exposures as part of our risk management strategy. The objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with gains and losses on the forward contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting fair values of assets and liabilities. We do not enter into any trading or speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments. 
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities less than 4 months, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales denominated in various currencies. These derivative instruments are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. 
For these derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments, during the three month period ended  June 30, 2019, net pre-tax gains of $512 were recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). In addition, during the three month period ended  June 30, 2019, net pre-tax losses of $392 were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into cost of sales (for hedging purchases), and net pre-tax gains of $694 were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into sales (for hedging sales) in the accompanying statement of operations. 
Derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments consist primarily of forwards used to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. These hedging instruments are used to offset foreign currency changes in the fair values of the underlying assets and liabilities. The gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income (loss) in the same period as the remeasurement gains and losses of the related foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and thus naturally offset these gains and losses. At  March 31, 2019 and  June 30, 2019, we had the following forward contracts that were entered into to hedge against these exposures. 
At  March 31, 2019 and  June 30, 2019, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $216,555 and $242,587, respectively, denominated primarily in Euros, Czech Korunas, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. 
On  July 24, 2019, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a $0.115 dividend per share of common stock with respect to the quarter ended  June 30, 2019. The dividend will be paid to stockholders of record on  August 1, 2019 and will be disbursed on  August 15, 2019. 
Forward-Looking Statements 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
Our net income for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $54.7 million, or $0.32 per share, compared to net income of $56.0 million, or $0.33 per share, for the three months ended June 30, 2018. 
The table below represents product group revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2019. 
Electronic Components sales decreased $41.7 million, or 13.1% to $277.5 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to sales of $319.2 million during the same period last year driven by unfavorable global macro-economic conditions partially offset by increased electronic content in automobiles, global defense spending, and technological advances across a broad range of IoT products. The increase in Ceramic Components is primarily due to higher demand and a more favorable pricing environment during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same quarter last year. Tantalum Components have declined during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period last year as a result of lower demand, primarily in Asia, resulting from the decline in the Chinese economy in addition to higher inventory levels in the sales channel in all regions, particularly with our distribution customers. The decline in Advanced Components during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same quarter last year has been impacted by approximately $17 million of sales for Kyocera product which is no longer sold by AVX in addition to a slower mobile phone market. 
Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices product sales decreased $10.6 million to $124.3 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to $134.9 million during the same period last year. This decrease is primarily attributable to a decrease of automotive manufacturing globally. 
Overall sales percentages decreased in the Asian and European regions as a result of the weaker Chinese economy and weaker automotive markets while sales increased in our American region compared to the same three-month period last year. Sales in the Asian, American, and European markets represented 29%, 29% and 42% of total sales, respectively, for the three month period ended June 30, 2019. This compares to 31%, 25% and 44% of total sales for the Asian, American, and European regions in the same period last year, respectively. 
Our sales to independent electronic distributor customers represented 38% of total sales for the three month period ended June 30, 2019, compared to 40% for the three month period ended June 30, 2018. Overall, distributor sales activity decreased when compared to the same period last year as inventory remains higher than normal within the distribution channel resulting from the slower global economy and shortened lead times for certain products making distributors reluctant to take on additional inventory. Our sales to distributor customers involve specific ship-and-debit and stock rotation programs for which sales allowances are recorded as reductions in sales. Such allowance charges were $5.3 million, or 3.5% of gross sales to distributor customers for the three month period ended June 30, 2019, and $6.4 million, or 3.5% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the three month period ended June 30, 2018. Applications under such programs for the three month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were approximately $5.1 million and $6.2 million, respectively. 
Gross profit in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 was $100.6 million, compared to a gross profit of $108.3 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018. This overall decrease in dollars is primarily attributable to lower sales partially offset by strong margins. Gross profit as a percentage of sales for the three month period ended June 30, 2019 was 25.1% compared to 23.9% for the three month period ended June 30, 2018. This increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales is reflective of our continued focus on the sale of value-added components with better margin opportunities, increased operational efficiencies, and an improved pricing environment in the global marketplace when compared to the same quarter last year. Costs due to currency movement were favorably impacted by $8.0 million when compared to the same period last year. 
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 were $41.9 million, or 10.4% of net sales, compared to $40.3 million, or 8.9% of net sales, in the three month period ended June 30, 2018. When compared to the same quarter last year, the overall increase in these expenses is primarily due to higher legal fees partially offset by lower selling expenses as a result of the lower sales. 
Income from operations was $58.7 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to $68.0 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018. This decrease was a result of the factors described above. 
Other income, net, was $4.5 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to $2.8 million for the same three month period last year reflecting higher interest income. 
The provision for income tax for the three month period ended June 30, 2019 was $8.5 million compared to $14.8 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2018. Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 was approximately 13%. The decrease in the effective tax rate is due to a discrete tax benefits occurring during the quarter. This benefit is principally due to an increase in foreign tax credits on foreign withholding obligations. Excluding these adjustments, the effective tax rate would be approximately 21% for the quarter ended June 30, 2019. 
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income for the three month period ended June 30, 2019 was $54.7 million compared to net income of $56.0 million for the same three month period last year. 
Outlook 
Our liquidity needs arise primarily from working capital requirements, dividends, capital expenditures, and acquisitions. Historically, we have satisfied our liquidity requirements through funds from operations, investment income from cash and investments in securities, and cash on hand. As of June 30, 2019, we had a current ratio of 6 to 1, $790.3 million of cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities, $2.4 billion of stockholders’ equity, and no borrowings. 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $32.1 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to $97.6 million of cash provided by operating activities in the three month period ended June 30, 2018. 
Purchases of property and equipment were $34.4 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 and $38.0 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018. Expenditures in the current quarter were primarily made in connection with strategic building expansion and equipment purchase activities in our Fountain Inn, South Carolina facilities and our plants in El Salvador and Malaysia. We expect to continue making strategic capital investments in our Electronic Component and Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices product lines and estimate that we will incur capital expenditures of approximately $100 million in fiscal 2020. The actual amount of capital expenditures will depend upon the outlook for end-market demand and timing of capital projects. 
Commitments and Contingencies 
Please refer to Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 to this Form 10-Q for a discussion of our involvement in certain environmental and other pending legal proceedings. 
  AVX Corporation           
      Michael Hufnagel           
