AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited) 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited) 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) 
 (in thousands) 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 
There are general product warranties within our contracts, as the Company warrants that products will function as expected in accordance with the specifications per the contract. These warranties cannot be purchased by the customer separately and accordingly these warranties are not considered to be separate performance obligations. 
Payment terms for the Company’s sales are generally less than 90 days. Substantially all of the Company’s receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward. The Company applies the practical expedient within ASC 606 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component in the determination of the transaction price. 
We evaluate gross versus net presentation on revenues from products purchased and resold in accordance with the revenue recognition criteria outlined in ASC 606. Based on the evaluation of our resale arrangements with Kyocera, including consideration of the primary indicators set forth in ASC 606, we record revenue related to products purchased and resold on a gross basis. 
The Company pays commissions to sales representatives on a per-sale basis and applies the practical expedient available within ASC 340. Accordingly, commissions are expensed as incurred. 
Returns 
Distribution Programs 
Distributor Stock Rotation Program 
In 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers.” This guidance modifies how an entity will determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized. The Company adopted this guidance effective April 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method, with no material impact on our results of operations. Please refer to Note 3 for additional information. 
In February 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” This guidance changes the requirements for inclusion of certain right-of-use assets and the associated lease liabilities to be included in a statement of financial position. The classification criteria maintains the distinction between finance leases and operating leases. Regarding finance leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize interest on the lease liability separate from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income, and 3) classify repayments of the principal portion of the lease liability within financing activities and payments of interest on the lease liability and variable lease payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows. Regarding operating leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term on a generally straight-line basis, and 3) classify all cash payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows. This guidance is effective for public companies for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. Prior to our recent acquisitions, we disclosed that we anticipated no material impact from adopting ASU 2016-02. However, we are in the process of updating our assessment to include the impact of our recently acquired companies. 
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging.” The standard aims to align the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results for cash flow and fair value hedge accounting with risk management activities. The guidance is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted in any interim period after issuance. Management is currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. 
We used the acquisition method of accounting to record the below transactions in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations.” In accordance with the acquisition method, the purchase price is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values with the excess being allocated to goodwill. Factors that contributed to the recognition of goodwill include expected synergies and the trained workforce. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. 
On January 31, 2018, AVX acquired Ethertronics, Inc. ("Ethertronics") for $128,242 net of cash and debt acquired. The Ethertronics business is now named AVX Antenna and is consolidated with our Electronic Components segment. The purchase of Ethertronics expands AVX’s extensive electronic product offering into the antenna technology market and will provide new and exciting growth opportunities for AVX going forward. 
The results of operations for AVX Antenna since the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. We recorded approximately $64,800 of identifiable intangible assets and $75,625 of goodwill. The acquired intangible assets relate to the Ethertronics trade name, existing technology and customer relationships which are being amortized over ten, ten, and thirteen years, respectively. We recognized revenue of $31,941 from AVX Antenna in the three month period ended June 30, 2018. 
We adopted ASC 606 effective April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. We elected the practical expedient to only apply the standard to contracts that were not completed at the effective date. The impact of implementing this standard had no impact on our revenue recognition for the uncompleted contracts and accordingly no cumulative adjustment was made to the opening balance of retained earnings as of April 1, 2018. 
Reference Note 5, "Trade Accounts Receivable and Contract Liabilities," for information on variable consideration and right-of-return liability details. 
Reference Note 11, "Segment and Geographic Information," for disaggregated revenue information.  
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the sum of (a) the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and (b) the dilutive effect of potential common stock equivalents during the period. Stock options and unvested service-based RSU awards make up the common stock equivalents and are computed using the treasury stock method. 
The table below represents the basic and diluted earnings per share and sets forth the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding and potential common stock equivalents for the three month periods ending June 30, 2017 and 2018. 
Common stock equivalents not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the impact would have been anti-dilutive were 161 shares and 55 shares for the three month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2018, respectively.     
During the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, there have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels within the fair value hierarchy. 
Assets held in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan 
Assets valued using Level 1 and Level 2 inputs in the table above represent assets from our non-qualified deferred compensation program. The funds in the non-qualified deferred compensation program are valued based on the number of shares in the funds using a price per share traded in an active market. 
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies. We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities. Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract. The spot rates and forward points used are an average rate from an actively traded market. At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements. 
At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, we classified investments in debt securities and time deposits as held-to-maturity securities. 
Our long-term and short-term investment securities are accounted for as held-to-maturity securities and are carried at amortized cost. We have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity. All income generated from the held-to-maturity securities investments are recorded as interest income. 
We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), or equivalent non-U.S., state or local laws, for clean-up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination. Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or non-U.S., state or local regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean-up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs. At certain sites, financially responsible PRPs other than AVX also are, or have been, involved in site investigation and clean-up activities. We believe that liability resulting from these sites will be apportioned between AVX and other PRPs. 
To resolve our liability at the sites at which we have been named a PRP, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees with federal and state regulatory agencies governing the timing and nature of investigation and remediation. As is customary, the orders and decrees regarding sites where the PRPs are not themselves implementing the chosen remedy contain provisions allowing the EPA to reopen the agreement and seek additional amounts from settling PRPs in the event that certain contingencies occur, such as the discovery of significant new information about site conditions. 
On June 3, 2010, AVX entered into an agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford, pursuant to which AVX is required to perform environmental remediation at a site referred to as the “Aerovox Site” (the “Site”), located in New Bedford, Massachusetts. AVX has substantially completed its obligations pursuant to such agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford with respect to the satisfaction of AVX’s federal law requirements. The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction over the balance of the environmental remediation at the Site. AVX has submitted its proposed remedy, but until the state has approved such proposal, AVX cannot determine if additional groundwater and soil remediation will be required, if substantial material will have to be disposed of offsite, or if additional remediation techniques will be required, any of which could result in a more extensive and costly plan of remediation. Further, the Site and the remediation may be subject to additional scrutiny under other statutory procedures which could also add to the cost of remediation. We have a remaining accrual of $1,683 million at June 30, 2018, representing our current estimate of the potential liability related to the remaining performance of environmental remediation actions at the Site and neighboring properties using certain assumptions regarding the plan of remediation. Until all parties agree and remediation is complete, we cannot be certain there will be no additional cost relating to the Site. 
On April 19, 2016, the Canadian Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change (the “MoE”) issued a Director’s Order naming AVX Corporation, and others, as responsible parties with respect to a location in Hamilton, Ontario that was at one time the site of operations of Aerovox Canada, a former subsidiary of Aerovox Corporation, a predecessor of AVX. This Director’s Order follows a draft order issued on November 4, 2015. AVX has taken the position that any liability of Aerovox Canada for such site under the laws of Canada cannot be imposed on AVX. At present, it is unclear whether the MoE will seek to enforce such Canadian order against AVX, and whether, in the event it does so, AVX will have any liability under applicable law. AVX intends to contest any such course of action that may be taken by the MoE. 
On April 25, 2013, AVX was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Greatbatch, Inc. v. AVX Corporation. This case alleged that certain AVX products infringe on one or more of six Greatbatch patents. On January 26, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff in the first phase of a segmented trial and a mixed verdict in the second phase of a segmented trial, and found damages to Greatbatch in the amount of $37,500, which was recorded in fiscal 2016. That verdict was later vacated by the court on March 30, 2018. The amount of damages will be subject to further legal proceedings including a potential trial on damages, which we expect to occur in fiscal 2019. AVX is continuing to litigate the case. 
On September 2, 2014, a subsidiary of AVX, American Technical Ceramics (“ATC”), was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court of the Southern District of California captioned Presidio Components, Inc. v. American Technical Ceramics Corp. This case alleged that certain ATC products infringe on a Presidio patent. On April 18, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and found damages to Presidio. On August 17, 2016, the court issued a permanent injunction prohibiting ATC from manufacturing or selling the related products after November 16, 2016. Subsequently, on October 21, 2016, the Federal Circuit Court granted AVX’s request for a stay of the permanent injunction whereby ATC was allowed to continue to sell the disputed product until March 17, 2017 to anyone who was a customer prior to June 17, 2016. Any sales subsequent to November 16, 2016 pursuant to the stay of the permanent injunction were subject to court mandated intellectual property damages for each product sold. In December, 2017, a panel of the Federal Circuit vacated the damage award to Presidio, vacated the injunction, and remanded the case for further proceedings to determine damages limited to “reasonable royalties” and to reconsider the requested injunction in light of its opinion and any additional facts. 
During calendar year 2014, AVX was named as a co-defendant in a series of cases filed in the United States and in the Canadian provinces of Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Manitoba alleging violations of United States, state and Canadian antitrust laws and asserting that AVX and numerous other companies were participants in alleged price-fixing in the capacitor market. The cases in the United States were consolidated into the Northern District of California on October 2, 2014. However, some plaintiffs have broken off from the United States class action and filed actions on their own, although AVX is not named in all of these independent actions. The cases in Canada have not been consolidated. These cases are still in progress. AVX believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend the cases. 
Comprehensive income (loss) represents changes in equity during a period except those resulting from investments by and distributions to shareholders. The specific components include net income, pension liability and other post-retirement benefit adjustments, deferred gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on qualified foreign currency cash flow hedges. 
Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) include those that pertain to the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges. Please see Note 12 for additional information related to the amortization of prior service cost and the recognized actuarial losses, which amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the statement of operations during the three month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2018. Please see Note 13 for additional information related to realized gains and losses on derivative instruments reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) during the three month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2018. 
We evaluate performance of our segments based upon sales and operating profit. There are no intersegment revenues. We allocate the costs of shared resources between segments based on each segment’s usage of the shared resources. Cash, accounts receivable, investments in securities, and certain other assets, which are centrally managed, are not readily allocable to operating segments. 
The following geographic data is based upon net sales generated by operations located within particular geographic areas. Substantially all of the sales in the Americas region were generated in the United States. 
Based on current actuarial computations, during the three months ended June 30, 2018, we made contributions of $1,750 to the international plans. We expect to make additional contributions of approximately $5,500 to the international plans over the remainder of fiscal 2019. We made no contributions to the U.S. plans during the three months ended June 30, 2018. We expect to make additional contributions of $1,065 to the U.S. plans the remainder of fiscal 2019. 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the normal course of business. We use derivative instruments (forward contracts) to hedge certain foreign currency exposures as part of our risk management strategy. The objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with gains and losses on the forward contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting fair values of assets and liabilities. We do not enter into any trading or speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments. 
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities less than four months, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies. These derivative instruments are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. 
For these derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments, during the three month period ended June 30, 2018, net pre-tax losses of $833 were recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). In addition, during the three month period ended June 30, 2018, net pre-tax losses of $2,045 were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into cost of sales (for hedging purchases), and net pretax gains of $1,370 were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into sales (for hedging sales) in the accompanying statement of operations. 
Derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments consist primarily of forwards used to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. These hedging instruments are used to offset foreign currency changes in the fair values of the underlying assets and liabilities. The gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income (loss) in the same period as the remeasurement gains and losses of the related foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and thus naturally offset these gains and losses. At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, we had the following forward contracts that were entered into to hedge against these exposures. 
At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $156,238 and $171,725, respectively, denominated primarily in Euros, Czech Korunas, and Japanese Yen. 
On July 18, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a $0.115 dividend per share of common stock with respect to the quarter ended June 30, 2018. The dividend will be paid to stockholders of record on August 1, 2018 and will be disbursed on August 15, 2018. 
Forward-Looking Statements 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
Results of Operations - Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 and 2018 
Our net income for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was $56.0 million, or $0.33 per share, compared to net income of $31.5 million, or $0.19 per share, for the three months ended June 30, 2017. 
The table below represents product group revenues for the quarters ended June 30, 2017 and 2018. 
Electronic Components sales increased $17.5 million, or 5.8% to $319.2 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018 compared to sales of $301.7 million during the same period last year driven by favorable global macro-economic conditions, increased electronic content in automobiles, increased global defense spending, and technological advances across a broad range of IoT products. Sales increases for our Ceramic and Tantalum Components were partially offset by sales decreases in our Advanced Component group primarily due to the previously announced decision by Kyocera to market and sell globally using Kyocera’s salesforce rather than Kyocera continuing to have AVX resell such products globally. Kyocera Resale sales were $17.2 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2018 compared to $76.7 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2017. Sales in our Advanced Component group were favorably impacted by $31.9 million attributable to our acquisition of Ethertronics when compared to the same quarter last year.  
Gross profit in the three month period ended June 30, 2018 was $108.3 million, compared to a gross profit of $73.8 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2017. This overall increase in dollars is primarily attributable to higher sales in addition to improved margins. Gross profit as a percentage of sales for the three month period ended June 30, 2018 was 23.9% compared to 22.3% for the three month period ended June 30, 2017. This increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales is reflective of our continued focus on the sale of value added components with better margin opportunities, increased operational efficiencies, and an improved pricing environment in the global marketplace. Costs due to currency movement were unfavorably impacted by $4.4 million when compared to the same period last year. 
Income from operations was $68.0 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018 compared to $42.4 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2017. This increase was a result of the factors described above. 
Other income, net, was $2.8 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2018 compared to $1.9 million for the same three month period last year. 
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income for the three month period ended June 30, 2018 was $56.0 million compared to net income of $31.5 million for the same three month period last year. 
Outlook 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $97.6 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018 compared to $63.5 million of cash provided by operating activities in the three month period ended June 30, 2017. 
On April 30, 2018, AVX completed its purchase of Kumatec for $12.3 million in cash, net of cash acquired and debt assumed. Kumatec develops, constructs and manufactures automation equipment and manufactures plastic components. 
Commitments and Contingencies 
Please refer to Note 9, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 to this Form 10-Q for a discussion of our involvement in certain environmental and other pending legal proceedings. 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
The following table shows our purchases of common stock during the quarter. 
On October 17, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of 5,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market. The repurchased shares are held as treasury stock and are available for general corporate purposes. As of June 30, 2018, there were 3,012,074 shares that may yet be repurchased under this program.    
  AVX Corporation           
   Michael Hufnagel      
