All products are built to specification and tested by AVX or our suppliers for adherence to such specification before shipment to customers. We ship products to customers based upon firm orders. Shipping and handling costs are treated as fulfillment costs and as such are included in cost of sales. The Company applies this accounting policy election consistently to its sales. We recognize revenue as performance obligations are satisfied, which is when the customer takes control of the products as they are shipped to or received by the customer in accordance with the terms of the agreement of sale. 
There are general product warranties within our contracts, as the Company warrants that products will function as expected in accordance with the specifications per the contract. These warranties cannot be purchased by the customer separately and accordingly these warranties are not considered to be separate performance obligations. 
Payment terms for the Company’s sales are generally less than 90 days. Substantially all of the Company’s receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward. The Company applies the practical expedient within ASC 606 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component in the determination of the transaction price. 
We evaluate gross versus net presentation on revenues from products purchased and resold in accordance with the revenue recognition criteria outlined in ASC 606. Based on the evaluation of our resale arrangements with Kyocera, including consideration of the primary indicators set forth in ASC 606, we record revenue related to products purchased and resold on a gross basis. 
The Company pays commissions to sales representatives on a per-sale basis and applies the practical expedient available within ASC 340. Accordingly, commissions are expensed as incurred. 
Ship-from-Stock and Debit (“ship and debit”) is a program designed to assist distributor customers in meeting competitive prices in the marketplace on sales to their end customers. Ship and debit programs require a request from the distributor for a pricing adjustment for a specific part for a sale to the distributor’s end customer from the distributor’s stock. The pricing adjustment is deemed variable consideration. Ship and debit authorizations may cover current and future distributor activity for a specific part for sale to their customer. At the time we record sales to the distributors, we provide an allowance for the variable consideration of the estimated future distributor activity related to such sales since it is probable that such sales to distributors will result in ship and debit activity. We record an estimated sales allowance based on sales during the period, credits issued to distributors, distributor inventory levels, historical trends, market conditions, pricing trends we see in our direct sales activity with original equipment manufacturers and other customers, and input from sales, marketing, and other key management personnel. These procedures require the exercise of significant judgments. We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future credits under the ship and debit program. Our actual results have historically approximated our estimates. At the time the distributor ships the part from stock, the distributor debits us for the authorized pricing adjustment. 
In 2014, FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers.” This guidance modifies how an entity will determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized. The Company adopted this guidance effective April 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method, with no material impact on our results of operations. Please refer to Note 3 for additional information. 
In February 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” This guidance changes the requirements for inclusion of certain right-of-use assets and the associated lease liabilities to be included in a statement of financial position. The classification criteria maintains the distinction between finance leases and operating leases. Regarding finance leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize interest on the lease liability separate from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income, and 3) classify repayments of the principal portion of the lease liability within financing activities and payments of interest on the lease liability and variable lease payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows. Regarding operating leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term on a generally straight-line basis, and 3) classify all cash payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows. This guidance is effective for public companies for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. Prior to our recent acquisitions, we disclosed that we anticipated no material impact from adopting ASU 2016-02. However, we are in the process of updating our assessment to include the impact of our recently acquired companies. 
In August 2017, FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging.” The standard aims to align the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results for cash flow and fair value hedge accounting with risk management activities. The guidance is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted in any interim period after issuance. Management is currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. 
We used the acquisition method of accounting to record the below transactions in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations.” In accordance with the acquisition method, the purchase price is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values with the excess being allocated to goodwill. Factors that contributed to the recognition of goodwill include expected synergies and the trained workforce. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. 
We recorded approximately $18,168 of identifiable intangible assets and $27,320 of goodwill pertaining to this acquisition. The acquired intangible assets relate to the AB Electronics trade name, existing technology and customer relationships which are being amortized over one, eleven, and six years respectively. In the quarter ended September 30, 2018, immaterial measurement period adjustments were made to the allocation of the purchase price. The measurement period is no longer open. 
On January 31, 2018, AVX acquired Ethertronics, Inc. for $127,677 net of cash and debt acquired. The Ethertronics business is now named “AVX Antenna” and is consolidated with our Electronic Components segment. The purchase of Ethertronics expands AVX’s extensive electronic product offering into the antenna technology market and will provide new and exciting growth opportunities for AVX going forward. 
The results of operations for AVX Antenna since the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. We recorded approximately $64,800 of identifiable intangible assets and $77,819 of goodwill. The acquired intangible assets relate to the Ethertronics trade name, existing technology and customer relationships which are being amortized over ten, ten, and thirteen years, respectively. We recognized revenue of $31,806 and $63,747 from AVX Antenna in the three and six month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively. Immaterial working capital and other measurement period adjustments were made to the allocation to the purchase price. The measurement period remains open until February 2019. 
We adopted ASC 606 effective April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. We elected the practical expedient to only apply the standard to contracts that were not completed at the effective date. Implementing this standard had no impact on our revenue recognition for the uncompleted contracts and accordingly no cumulative adjustment was made to the opening balance of retained earnings as of April 1, 2018. 
Reference Note 5, "Trade Accounts Receivable and Contract Liabilities," for information on variable consideration and right-of-return liability details. 
Reference Note 11, "Segment and Geographic Information," for disaggregated revenue information. 
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the sum of (a) the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and (b) the dilutive effect of potential common stock equivalents during the period. Stock options and unvested service-based restricted stock unit (“RSU”) awards make up the common stock equivalents and are computed using the treasury stock method. 
The table below represents the basic and diluted earnings per share and sets forth the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding and potential common stock equivalents for the three and six month periods ending September 30, 2017 and 2018. 
The following describes valuation techniques used to appropriately value our assets held in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan and derivatives. 
Assets valued using Level 1 and Level 2 inputs in the table above represent assets from our non-qualified deferred compensation program. The funds in the non-qualified deferred compensation program are valued based on the number of shares in the funds using a price per share traded in an active market. 
Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, we evaluate general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and whether or not we expect to recover the security's entire amortized cost. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. 
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies. We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities. Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract. The spot rates and forward points used are an average rate from an actively traded market. At March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements. 
At March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, we classified investments in debt securities and time deposits as held-to-maturity securities. 
Our long-term and short-term investment securities are accounted for as held-to-maturity securities and are carried at amortized cost. We have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity. All income generated from the held-to-maturity securities investments are recorded as interest income. 
We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), or equivalent non-U.S., state or local laws, for clean-up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination. Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or non-U.S., state or local regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean-up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs. At certain sites, financially responsible PRPs other than AVX also are, or have been, involved in site investigation and clean-up activities. We believe that liability resulting from these sites will be apportioned between AVX and other PRPs. 
To resolve our liability at the sites at which we have been named a PRP, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees with federal and state regulatory agencies governing the timing and nature of investigation and remediation. As is customary, the orders and decrees regarding sites where the PRPs are not themselves implementing the chosen remedy contain provisions allowing the EPA to reopen the agreement and seek additional amounts from settling PRPs in the event that certain contingencies occur, such as the discovery of significant new information about site conditions. 
On June 3, 2010, AVX entered into an agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford, pursuant to which AVX is required to perform environmental remediation at a site referred to as the “Aerovox Site” (the “Site”), located in New Bedford, Massachusetts. AVX has substantially completed its obligations pursuant to such agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford with respect to the satisfaction of AVX’s federal law requirements. The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction over the balance of the environmental remediation at the Site. AVX has submitted its proposed remedy, but until the state has approved such proposal, AVX cannot determine if additional groundwater and soil remediation will be required, if substantial material will have to be disposed of offsite, or if additional remediation techniques will be required, any of which could result in a more extensive and costly plan of remediation. Further, the Site and the remediation may be subject to additional scrutiny under other statutory procedures which could also add to the cost of remediation. We have a remaining accrual of $14,020 at September 30, 2018, representing our current estimate of the potential liability related to the remaining performance of environmental remediation actions at the Site and neighboring properties using certain assumptions regarding the plan of remediation. Until all parties agree and remediation is complete, we cannot be certain there will be no additional cost relating to the Site. 
We had total reserves of approximately $18,618 and $18,729 at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively, related to various environmental matters and sites, including those discussed above. These reserves are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as $3,329 and $6,040 in accrued expenses at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively, and $15,289 and $12,689 in other non-current liabilities at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively. The amounts recorded for identified environmental liabilities are based on estimates. Periodically, we review amounts recorded and adjust them to reflect additional legal and technical information that becomes available. Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, regulatory actions, technology, and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop an estimate of the reasonably possible aggregate environmental remediation exposure. Accordingly, these costs could differ from our current estimates. 
In connection with the same location, Union Gas Limited and Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company filed suits in the Superior Court of Justice for Ontario, Canada, against AVX Corporation, Aerovox Corp. and Cooper Industries, LLC seeking to recover the costs of remediation of the site and for damages associated with alleged contamination of the site. Those suits were filed on April 18, 2018, but not served on AVX until October 11, 2018, and are in their initial stages. AVX is considering its legal options but intends to vigorously defend these matters.  
We are not involved in any pending or threatened environmental proceedings that would require curtailment of our operations. We continually expend funds to ensure that our facilities comply with applicable environmental regulations. While we believe that we are in compliance with applicable environmental laws, we cannot accurately predict future developments and do not necessarily have knowledge of all past occurrences on sites that we currently occupy. New environmental regulations may be enacted and we cannot determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with such regulations. Moreover, the risk of environmental liability and remediation costs is inherent in the nature of our business and, therefore, there can be no assurance that material environmental costs, including remediation costs, will not arise in the future. 
On April 25, 2013, AVX was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Greatbatch, Inc. v. AVX Corporation. This case alleged that certain AVX products infringe on one or more of six Greatbatch patents. On January 26, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff in the first phase of a segmented trial and a mixed verdict in the second phase of a segmented trial, and found damages to Greatbatch in the amount of $ 37,500, which was recorded in fiscal 2016. That verdict was later vacated by the court on March 30, 2018. The amount of damages will be subject to further legal proceedings including a potential trial on damages, which we expect to occur in fiscal 2019. AVX is continuing to litigate the case. 
On September 2, 2014, a subsidiary of AVX, American Technical Ceramics (“ATC”), was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court of the Southern District of California captioned Presidio Components, Inc. v. American Technical Ceramics Corp. This case alleged that certain ATC products infringe on a Presidio patent. On April 18, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and found damages to Presidio. On August 17, 2016, the court issued a permanent injunction prohibiting ATC from manufacturing or selling the related products after November 16, 2016. Subsequently, on October 21, 2016, the Federal Circuit Court granted AVX’s request for a stay of the permanent injunction whereby ATC was allowed to continue to sell the disputed product until March 17, 2017 to anyone who was a customer prior to June 17, 2016. Any sales subsequent to November 16, 2016 pursuant to the stay of the permanent injunction were subject to court mandated intellectual property damages for each product sold. In December, 2017, a panel of the Federal Circuit vacated the damage award to Presidio, vacated the injunction, and remanded the case for further proceedings to determine damages limited to “reasonable royalties” and to reconsider the requested injunction in light of its opinion and any additional facts. In 2018, the District Court set the amount of royalties and re-issued the injunction. An appeal has been filed from both decisions. 
During calendar year 2014, AVX was named as a co-defendant in a series of cases filed in the United States and in the Canadian provinces of Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Manitoba alleging violations of United States, state and Canadian antitrust laws and asserting that AVX and numerous other companies were participants in alleged price-fixing in the capacitor market. The cases in the United States were consolidated into the Northern District of California on October 2, 2014. However, some plaintiffs have broken off from the United States class action and filed actions on their own, although AVX is not named in all of these independent actions. The cases in Canada have not been consolidated. These cases are still in progress. AVX believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend the cases. 
Comprehensive income (loss) represents changes in equity during a period except those resulting from investments by and distributions to shareholders. The specific components include net income, pension liability and other post-retirement benefit adjustments, deferred gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on qualified foreign currency cash flow hedges. 
Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) include those that pertain to the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges. Please see Note 12 for additional information related to the amortization of prior service cost and the recognized actuarial losses, which amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the statement of operations during the three and six month periods ended September 30, 2017 and 2018. Please see Note 13 for additional information related to realized gains and losses on derivative instruments reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) during the three and six month periods ended September 30, 2018. 
We evaluate performance of our segments based upon sales and operating profit. There are no intersegment revenues. We allocate the costs of shared resources between segments based on each segment’s usage of the shared resources. Cash, accounts receivable, investments in securities, and certain other assets, which are centrally managed, are not readily allocable to operating segments. 
The following geographic data is based upon net sales generated by operations located within particular geographic areas. Substantially all of the sales in the Americas region were generated in the United States. 
Based on current actuarial computations, during the six months ended September 30, 2018, we made contributions of $3,436 to the international plans. We expect to make additional contributions of approximately $3,270 to the international plans over the remainder of fiscal 2019. We made a contribution of $2,289 to the U.S. plans during the six months ended September 30, 2018. We do not expect to make additional contributions to the U.S. plans the remainder of fiscal 2019. 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the normal course of business. We use derivative instruments (forward contracts) to hedge certain foreign currency exposures as part of our risk management strategy. The objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with gains and losses on the forward contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting fair values of assets and liabilities. We do not enter into any trading or speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments. 
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities less than four months, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies. These derivative instruments are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. 
For these derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments, during the three and six month periods ended September 30, 2018, a net pre-tax gain of $715 and a net pre-tax loss of $118 were recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). In addition, during the three and six month periods ended September 30, 2018, net pre-tax gains of $545 and $2,590, respectively, were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into cost of sales (for hedging purchases), and net pretax gains of $32 and $1,403 were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into sales (for hedging sales) in the accompanying statement of operations. 
Derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments consist primarily of forwards used to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. These hedging instruments are used to offset foreign currency changes in the fair values of the underlying assets and liabilities. The gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income (loss) in the same period as the re-measurement gains and losses of the related foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and thus naturally offset these gains and losses. At March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, we had the following forward contracts that were entered into to hedge against these exposures. 
For these derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments during the three month and six month periods ended September 30, 2018, gains of $66 on hedging contracts were recognized in other income (loss), along with the approximately $1,245 in exchange gains that were recognized in other income (loss) in the accompanying statement of operations. 
At March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $156,238 and $175,751, respectively, denominated primarily in Euros, Czech Korunas, and Japanese Yen. 
On October 17, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a $0.115 dividend per share of common stock with respect to the quarter ended September 30, 2018. The dividend will be paid to stockholders of record on November 2, 2018 and will be disbursed on November 16, 2018. 
Our customers consist of multi-national original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, independent electronic component distributors, and electronic manufacturing service providers, or EMSs. We market our products through our own direct sales force and independent manufacturers’ representatives, based upon market characteristics and demands. We coordinate our sales, marketing, and manufacturing organizations by strategic customer account and globally by region. 
Our net income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $72.1 million, or $0.43 per share, compared to net income of $34.8 million, or $0.21 per share, for the three months ended September 30, 2017. 
Electronic Components sales increased $12.1 million, or 3.8% to $332.2 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2018 compared to sales of $320.1 million during the same period last year driven by favorable global macro-economic conditions, increased electronic content in automobiles, increased global defense spending, and technological advances across a broad range of IoT products and smart home devices driving increased sales in all of our Electronic Components groups. The sales increases in our Advanced Component group were offset by lower Kyocera Resale product sales due to the previously announced decision by Kyocera to market and sell certain of its products globally using Kyocera’s salesforce as discussed above. Ceramic Components sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were favorably impacted by sales of $31.8 million related to our acquisition of AVX Antenna in February 2018. 
Gross profit in the three month period ended September 30, 2018 was $126.5 million, compared to a gross profit of $77.3 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2017. Gross profit as a percentage of sales for the three month period ended September 30, 2018 was 27.7% compared to 21.9% for the three month period ended September 30, 2017. This increase in gross profit in dollars and as a percentage of sales is reflective of our continued focus on the sale of value-added components with better margin opportunities, increased operational efficiencies, and an improved pricing environment in the global marketplace. Costs due to currency movement were favorably impacted by $5.8 million when compared to the same period last year. 
Income from operations was $85.6 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2018 compared to $44.8 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2017. This increase was a result of the factors described above. 
Our net income for the six months ended September 30, 2018 was $128.0 million, or $0.76 per share, compared to $66.3 million, or $0.39 per share, for the six months ended September 30, 2017. 
Electronic Component sales increased $29.7 million, or 4.8% to $651.4 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2018 compared to sales of $621.8 million during the same six month period last year as a result of steadily improving global market conditions driven by increased electronic content in automobiles, increased global defense spending, and technological advances across a broad range of IoT products and smart home devices driving the increased sales in all of our Electronic Components groups. The sales increases in our Advanced Component group were offset by lower Kyocera Resale product sales due to the previously announced decision by Kyocera to market and sell certain of its products globally using Kyocera’s salesforce as discussed above. 
Our sales to independent electronic distributor customers represented 41.2% of total sales for the six month period ended September 30, 2018, compared to 48.8% for the six month period ended September 30, 2017. Overall, distributor sales activity increased when compared to the same period last year as distributors increased order activity in response to good end market demand during the period. Our sales to distributor customers involve specific ship-and-debit and stock rotation programs for which sales allowances are recorded as reductions in sales. Such allowance charges were $13.5 million, or 3.6% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the six month period ended September 30, 2018, and $14.3 million, or 4.3% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the six month period ended September 30, 2017. Applications under such programs for the six month period ended September 30, 2017 and 2018 were approximately $14.0 million and $12.9 million, respectively. 
Gross profit in the six month period ended September 30, 2018 was 25.8% of sales, or $234.8 million, compared to a gross profit of 22.1% of sales, or $151.1 million, in the six month period ended September 30, 2017. This increase in gross profit in dollars and as a percentage of sales is reflective of our continued focus on the sale of value added components with better margin opportunities, increased operational efficiencies, and an improved pricing environment in the global marketplace. Costs due to currency movement were favorably impacted by $1.4 million when compared to the same period last year. 
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the six month period ended September 30, 2018 were $81.2 million, or 8.9% of net sales, compared to $63.9 million, or 9.3% of net sales, in the six month period ended September 30, 2017. The overall increase in these expenses is primarily due to higher selling expenses resulting from the increase in sales when compared to the same period last year. 
Other income, net was $6.0 million for the six month period ended September 30, 2018 compared to $6.2 million for the same six month period last year. This slight decrease was primarily due to higher foreign exchange losses resulting from currency fluctuations. 
The provision for income tax for the six month period ended September 30, 2018 was $31.7 million compared to $27.1 million for the six month period ended September 30, 2017. Our effective tax rate for the six month period ended September 30, 2018 was 20.9% compared to 29.0% for the six months ended September 30, 2017. The reduction in effective tax rate is primarily due to the enactment of the Act on December 22, 2017, as discussed above. The Company will continue to assess all relevant aspects of the Act, including additional guidance under the Act, among other things which may impact our income tax provision. 
Our liquidity needs arise primarily from working capital requirements, dividends, capital expenditures, and acquisitions. Historically, we have satisfied our liquidity requirements through funds from operations, investment income from cash and investments in securities, and cash on hand. As of September 30, 2018, we had a current ratio of 5.5 to 1, $844.7 million of cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities, $2.3 billion of stockholders’ equity, and no borrowings. On December 22, 2017, the Act was enacted in the U.S. Among numerous other provisions, the Act reduced or eliminated certain corporate tax deductions and provided for a transition from a worldwide to a territorial tax system for resident corporations and related corporate group members. As a result of the Act we will have greater flexibility to redirect our global cash resources where they are needed. 
Purchases of property and equipment were $65.0 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2018 and $38.9 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2017. Expenditures in the current quarter were primarily made in connection with strategic building expansion and equipment purchase activities in our Fountain Inn, South Carolina facilities and our plants in El Salvador, the Czech Republic, Germany and Malaysia. We expect to continue making strategic capital investments in our Electronic Component and Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices product lines and estimate that we will incur capital expenditures of approximately $100 million in fiscal 2019. The actual amount of capital expenditures will depend upon the outlook for end-market demand and timing of capital projects. 
On April 30, 2018, AVX completed its purchase of Kumatec for $12.9 million in cash, net of cash acquired and debt assumed. Kumatec develops, constructs and manufactures automation equipment and manufactures plastic components. 
Historically, our operating funding is internally generated through operations, investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities and cash on hand. We have assessed the condition of our financial resources and our current business and believe that, based on our financial condition as of September 30, 2018, cash on hand and cash expected to be generated from operating activities and investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated financing needs for working capital, capital expenditures, environmental clean-up costs, expenses related to ongoing litigation, pension plan funding, research, development, and engineering expenses, and dividend payments or stock repurchases to be made during the next twelve months. While changes in customer demand have an impact on our future cash requirements, changes in those requirements are mitigated by our ability to adjust manufacturing capabilities to meet increases or decreases in customer demand. We do not anticipate any significant changes in our ability to generate capital or meet our liquidity needs in the foreseeable future. 
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that the controls and procedures will meet their objectives. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. 
As of the end of the period covered in this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. 
Please refer to Note 9, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 to this Form 10-Q for a discussion of our involvement in certain environmental and other pending legal proceedings. 
The following table shows our purchases of common stock during the quarter. 
