fls.txt



item1.txt
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
The new standards and amendments may be adopted retrospectively for all periods presented, or adopted using a modified retrospective approach.
This change may have a material impact on the timing of revenue recognition in our Test segment.
The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.
Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty.
We record general warranty provisions based on an estimated warranty expense percentage applied to current period revenue.
Assets held under capital leases, consisting of machinery and equipment, are recorded at the present value of minimum lease payments and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
Amortization of assets held as capital leases is included in depreciation expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments.
Carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities are equal to the fair value.
See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
Carrying amount of the financial asset is equal to the fair value.
See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
These assets primarily include goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets acquired either as part of a business acquisition, individually or with a group of other assets, as well as property and equipment.
These assets were initially measured and recognized at amounts equal to the fair value determined as of the date of acquisition or purchase subject to changes in value only for foreign currency translation.


item2.txt
We believe we can create value for our customers by helping to enhance the precision, improve the reliability and create superior safety for their products, while reducing the delivery time to market for their products.
We believe that our business model supports our growth objectives, provided that we continue to move aggressively to build our infrastructure, expand our offerings and execute on opportunities with our key customers around the world.
See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the impact of the Tax Act.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of restructuring initiatives.
Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our financial results are principally exposed to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Chinese yuan.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on restructuring and related costs.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, we completed the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB).
As a result of the PCB acquisition, we incurred certain non-recurring costs during fiscal year 2017 including acquisition integration costs and a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory (PCB acquisition inventory adjustment).
Revenue for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 declined 1.1% and 1.8%, respectively, primarily driven by lower Test revenue, partially offset by growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 10% appreciation or depreciation in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, assuming all other variables are held constant, would result in an increase or decrease in revenue of approximately $15,023 for the six months ended March 31, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
The transfer of certain Test production operations in China to our new contract manufacturing partner may be subject to delays, increased costs or other unanticipated consequences.


