fls.txt



item1.txt
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
The accompanying consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 filed with the SEC.
The following accounting policies have been updated since our fiscal year 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
The aforementioned lease standards and amendments ("the new lease standard") are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
fiscal year 2020.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new revenue standard" or "ASC 606") to provide a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method.
See Note 3 for our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance.
We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method.
Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for transferring those goods or providing those services.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under the new revenue standard.
A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract's transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.
Our Sensors contracts generally have a single performance obligation which is satisfied at a point in time.
Sensors contracts are generally fixed-price purchase order fulfillment contracts, and the transaction price is equal to the observable consideration in the contract.
Revenue is recognized when obligations under the terms of the contract with our customer are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control upon product shipment (as evidenced by shipment or delivery terms) or with the performance of the service.
For our Sensors contracts with customers, payment terms are generally within 90 days.


item2.txt
See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the acquisition of E2M.
On November 21, 2018, we amended the Credit Agreement to increase the size of our Revolving Credit Facility from $120,000 to $150,000 and to extend the expiration date to July 5, 2022.
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the amendment to the Credit Agreement.
See Note 2 and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Income Statements and Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
The following table compares results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation, the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2019. ing the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit increased 0.2% and the gross margin rate declined 1.5 percentage points.
Income from operations for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 8.9% primarily due to lower operating expenses and higher gross profit, partially offset by acquisition-related expenses of $761 and the E2M acquisition inventory fair value adjustment of $445.
Interest expense, net for the three months ended December 29, 2018 remained flat primarily due to a reduction in interest expense related to lower balances on the tranche B term loan, as well as current year gains on interest rate swaps, which was offset by an increase in interest expense on the revolving credit facility.


item3.txt
We have operational procedures to mitigate these non-functional currency exposures.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


