item1.txt
However, in management’s opinion, the financial information reflects all adjustments, including those of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented.
The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 26, 2018 (the “2017 10-K”).
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
As a result of adoption, the Company recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $22.5 million to the income tax provision for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards for the six months ended March 30, 2018.
The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $22.5 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018.
The change in accounting for forfeitures was applied using a modified retrospective transition method and resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $1.9 million.
The adoption of this standard did not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application.
We will adopt this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and currently expect to apply the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance.
The assessment process consists of reviewing our current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to our revenue contracts and identifying appropriate changes to the business processes, systems and controls to support revenue recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard.
We are continuing to evaluate the potential impact on our business processes, systems, controls and our consolidated financial statements of the new revenue standard.
We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset.
We are currently evaluating the effect ASU 2016-16 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
At March 30, 2018, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $22.2 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment.
These amounts accrued for capital equipment purchases have been excluded from the consolidated statements of cash flows for the six months ended March 30, 2018, and are expected to be paid in subsequent periods.
Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
The Company measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis such as its financial instruments.
The Company reassesses the fair value of its contingent consideration liabilities on a quarterly basis and records any fair value adjustments to earnings in the period that they are determined.
The Company’s non-financial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets resulting from business combinations, are measured at fair value using income approach valuation methodologies at the date of acquisition and are subsequently re-measured if there are indicators of impairment.
The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of its fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired.
The difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the 24.6% United States federal statutory rate for the three months ended March 30, 2018, resulted primarily from a decrease to tax expense of $16.9 million related to an adjustment to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, and a benefit of $6.3 million related to windfall stock deductions, partially offset by an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions.
The difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the 24.6% United States federal statutory rate for the six months ended March 30, 2018, resulted primarily from a one-time charge of $240.9 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of the deferred tax assets and liabilities related to tax reform, and an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, and a benefit of $22.5 million related to windfall stock deductions.
On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law new tax legislation, which includes, among other things, a reduction of the United States corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, repeal of the corporate alternative minimum tax and the domestic production activities deduction, and expensing of certain capital investments.
The Company expects this tax reform to have significant continued impact on its provision for income taxes and is in the process of evaluating the impact.
Accrued taxes of $21.4 million and $19.3 million have been included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets as of March 30, 2018, and March 31, 2017, respectively.
The Company has accrued $222.1 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long-term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of March 30, 2018.
The Company has not recorded any liability for these indemnities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and does not expect that such obligations will have a material adverse impact on its financial condition or results of operations.
On January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of its common stock from time to time prior to January 31, 2020, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
The timing and amount of any shares of the Company’s common stock that are repurchased under the repurchase program will be determined by the Company’s management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors.
During the three months ended March 30, 2018, the Company paid $111.8 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 1.0 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $109.22 per share).
During the six months ended March 30, 2018, the Company paid $284.2 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 2.7 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $106.32 per share).
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding during the period.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of equity based awards that were outstanding during the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, and March 31, 2017, using the treasury stock method.
During the six months ended March 30, 2018, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $1.0 million to revise an estimate related to a leased facility included in a previously announced restructuring plan.


item2.txt
In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity.
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
•Net revenue increased by 11% to $1,965 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
This increase in revenue was primarily driven by our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve, the increasing number of applications for the Internet of Things, and our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, industrial, medical and military.
This increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily the result of cash generated from operations of $795 million, partially offset by the repurchase of 2.7 million shares of common stock for $284 million, dividend payments of $118 million, and capital expenditures of $119 million during the six months ended March 30, 2018.
March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, due to the overall increase in revenue and the aforementioned factors.
The decrease in amortization expense for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, was primarily due to the end of the useful lives of certain intangible assets that were acquired in prior fiscal years.
Restructuring and other charges for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, are related to an adjustment to previously announced restructuring plans.
Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of cash paid for acquisitions net of cash acquired, capital expenditures, cash received from the sale of capital assets, and cash related to the sale or maturity of investments.
The cash used for capital expenditures was $118.5 million in the six months ended March 30, 2018, primarily related to the purchase of manufacturing equipment to support the expansion of our assembly and test operations, filter production operations, and wafer fabrication facilities.
•$117.5 million related to the payment of cash dividends on our common stock; and
These uses of cash were partially offset by the net proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $32.3 million during the six months ended March 30, 2018.
Cash and cash equivalent balances were $1,881.3 million as of March 30, 2018, representing an increase of $264.5 million from September 29, 2017.
The increase resulted from $795.0 million in cash generated from operations which was partially offset by $284.2 million used to repurchase 2.7 million shares of stock, $117.5 million in cash dividend payments, $46.5 million used to repurchase shares related to payroll tax withholdings on equity awards, and $118.5 million in capital expenditures.
However, we cannot be certain that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be available in the future to fund all of our capital and operating requirements.
In addition, any future strategic investments and acquisitions may require additional cash and capital resources.
If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash or capital to meet our needs on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Our invested cash balances primarily consist of highly liquid term deposits and money market funds where the underlying securities primarily consist of United States treasury obligations, United States agency obligations and repurchase agreements collateralized by United States government and agency obligations.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in 
Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020.


item3.txt
We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.
Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk.
Credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our money market and deposits are diversified across several financial institutions with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty.


part2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement.
The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in 
Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020.
The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


