item1.txt
However, in management’s opinion, the financial information reflects all adjustments, including those of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented.
The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 26, 2018 (the “2017 10-K”).
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
As a result of adoption, the Company recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $23.6 million to the income tax provision for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards for the nine months ended June 29, 2018.
The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $23.6 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018.
The change in accounting for forfeitures was applied using a modified retrospective transition method and resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $1.9 million.
The adoption of this standard did not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance.
The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application.
The Company will adopt this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and currently expects to apply the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance.
The assessment process consists of reviewing the Company's current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to its revenue contracts and identifying appropriate changes to the business processes, systems and controls to support revenue recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the potential impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements.
As the Company continues to assess the impact of the new guidance on its revenue contracts with its customers and finalizes its evaluation of any changes to its accounting policies, internal controls and footnote disclosures, the Company may identify additional areas of impact and may revise the results of its preliminary assessment.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-entity Transfers of an Asset Other than Inventory (“ASU 2016-16”).
This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset.
The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December, 15, 2017, on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect ASU 2016-16 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (Topic 320) (“ASU 2016-13”), which requires a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured on the basis of amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period.
This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2021, with early adoption permitted.
This ASU requires modified retrospective adoption, with prospective adoption for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect ASU 2016-13 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Topic 320) (“ASU 2016-01”), which provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial assets and liabilities.
This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and requires modified retrospective adoption, with prospective adoption for amendments related to equity securities without readily determinable fair values.
The Company is evaluating the effect ASU 2016-01 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
At June 29, 2018, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $28.0 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment.
These amounts accrued for capital equipment purchases have been excluded from the consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, and are expected to be paid in subsequent periods.
The Company measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis such as its financial instruments.
The Company reassesses the fair value of its contingent consideration liabilities on a quarterly basis and records any fair value adjustments to earnings in the period that they are determined.
The Company’s non-financial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets resulting from business combinations, are measured at fair value using income approach valuation methodologies at the date of acquisition and are subsequently re-measured if there are indicators of impairment.
The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of its fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired.
The difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the 24.6% United States federal statutory rate for the three months ended June 29, 2018, resulted primarily from a decrease to tax expense of $12.0 million related to the release of tax reserves due to the lapse of the statute of limitations, an adjustment to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, and a benefit of $1.1 million related to windfall stock deductions, partially offset by an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions.
The difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the 24.6% United States federal statutory rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, resulted primarily from a one-time charge of $238.0 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of the deferred tax assets and liabilities related to tax reform, and an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, a decrease to tax expense of $12.0 million related to the release of tax reserves due to the lapse of the statute of limitations, and a benefit of $23.6 million related to windfall stock deductions.
Accrued taxes of $18.3 million and $20.3 million have been included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets as of June 29, 2018, and June 30, 2017, respectively.
The Company has accrued $219.0 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long-term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of June 29, 2018.
During the three months ended June 29, 2018, the Company paid $240.3 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 2.5 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $97.43 per share).
During the nine months ended June 29, 2018, the Company paid $524.5 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 5.1 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $102.06 per share).
The calculation of diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of equity based awards that were outstanding during the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, and June 30, 2017, using the treasury stock method.


item2.txt
In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity.
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
We generated net revenue of $894.3 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, a decrease of $6.5 million or 0.7%, as compared with $900.8 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
Net revenue increased by 7.2% or $192.8 million to $2,859.6 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with $2,666.8 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
This increase in net revenue for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, is primarily related to an increase in demand for our components from smartphone customers and an increase in demand from customers within the Internet of Things, automotive, industrial, medical and military industries, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, offset by decreases in average selling prices.
Gross profit margin increased to 50.5% of net revenue for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
Gross profit margin increased to 50.6% of net revenue for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
The increase in research and development expenses for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development–related expenses.
Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income for the period adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain operating assets and liabilities.
Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of capital expenditures and cash paid related to the purchase of marketable securities, offset by cash received related to the sale or maturity of marketable securities.
•$524.5 million related to our repurchase of 5.1 million shares of our common stock pursuant to the stock repurchase programs approved by our Board of Directors on January 31, 2018, and January 19, 2017; 
•$175.2 million related to the payment of cash dividends on our common stock; and
Cash and cash equivalent balances were $1,158.1 million as of June 29, 2018, representing a decrease of $458.7 million from September 29, 2017.
The decrease resulted from $524.5 million used to repurchase 5.1 million shares of stock, $175.2 million in cash dividend payments, $47.5 million used to repurchase shares related to payroll tax withholdings on equity awards, $490.6 million in net purchases of marketable securities and $310.0 million in capital expenditures which was partially offset by $1,053.0 million in cash generated from operations.
However, we cannot be certain that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be available in the future to fund all of our capital and operating requirements.
In addition, any future strategic investments and acquisitions may require additional cash and capital resources.
Item 2.
The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in certain competition with the third party.
Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020.
The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.


item3.txt
We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.
Our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (money market funds and marketable securities purchased with less than ninety days until maturity) that total approximately $1,158.1 million and marketable securities (U.S. Treasury and government securities, corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds, other government securities) that total approximately $384.4 million and $106.3 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of June 29, 2018.
Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk.


part2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in certain competition with the third party.
Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020.
The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.


