item1.txt
However, in management’s opinion, the financial information reflects all adjustments, including those of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented.
The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, filed with the SEC on November 15, 2018, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 25, 2019 (the “2018 10-K”).
In August 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) deferred the effective date of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), (“ASU 2014-09”), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance.
The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance.
The Company has determined the impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements is not material.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-entity Transfers of an Asset Other than Inventory (“ASU 2016-16”).
This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-16 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
This ASU requires a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured on the basis of amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-13 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Topic 320), (“ASU 2016-01”).
This ASU provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial assets and liabilities.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this ASU will result in an increase to the Company’s consolidated balance sheet for these assets and obligations.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The Company adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 for open contracts not completed as of the adoption date using the modified retrospective approach.
The impact of applying the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended December 28, 2018, was not material, except for an increase in accounts receivable and other current liabilities in the amount of $32.8 million to reflect customer credits as a liability.
Point in time recognition was determined as products manufactured under non-cancellable orders create an asset with an alternative use to the Company.
There were no material contract assets or contract liabilities recorded on the consolidated balance sheet in any of the periods presented.
All incremental customer contract acquisition costs are expensed as they are incurred as the amortization period of the asset that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less in duration.
The Company has a single reportable operating segment which designs, develops, manufactures and markets similar proprietary semiconductor products, including intellectual property.
For the three months ended December 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, one customer accounted for 58% and 56%, respectively, of the Company’s net revenue.
•Level 3 - Fair value is derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable, including assumptions and judgments made by the Company.
The Company measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis such as its financial instruments.
There have been no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 assets or liabilities during the three months ended December 28, 2018.
The Company reassesses the fair value of its contingent consideration liabilities on a quarterly basis and records any fair value adjustments to earnings in the period that they are determined.
There were no changes to the fair value of the Level 3 liabilities during the three months ended December 28, 2018.
The Company’s non-financial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets resulting from business combinations, are measured at fair value using income approach valuation methodologies at the date of acquisition and are subsequently re-measured if there are indicators of impairment.
The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of its fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired.
Accrued taxes of $71.6 million and $62.5 million have been included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets as of December 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, respectively.
The Company has accrued $206.6 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long-term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of December 28, 2018.
On January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of its common stock from time to time prior to January 31, 2020, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
During the three months ended December 28, 2018, the Company paid $284.0 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 4.0 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $71.00 per share).
On January 30, 2019, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of its common stock from time to time prior to January 30, 2021, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
The timing and amount of any shares of the Company’s common stock that are repurchased under the new repurchase program will be determined by the Company’s management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors.
On February 5, 2019, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had declared a cash dividend on its common stock of $0.38 per share, payable on March 19, 2019, to the Company’s stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 26, 2019.
During the three months ended December 28, 2018, the Company declared and paid a $0.38 dividend per common share with a total charge to retained earnings of $67.1 million 
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding during the period.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of equity based awards that were outstanding during the three months ended December 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, using the treasury stock method.


item2.txt
In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity.
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended December 28, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development–related expenses.
During the three months ended December 29, 2017, $4.0 million in amortization of intangibles was included in selling, general and administrative expense.
Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income for the period adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain operating assets and liabilities.
The increase in cash from operating activities during the three months ended December 28, 2018, was primarily related to an increase in cash generated from collecting receivables and reduced payments of payables totaling $218.7 million.
Cash provided by investing activities was $171.5 million during the three months ended December 28, 2018, as compared with $34.2 million cash used in investing activities during the three months ended December 29, 2017.
Cash and cash equivalent balances were $1,085.7 million as of December 28, 2018, representing an increase of $352.4 million from September 28, 2018.
However, we cannot be certain that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be available in the future to fund all of our capital and operating requirements.
In addition, any future strategic investments and acquisitions may require additional cash and capital resources.
Our contractual obligations disclosure in the 2018 10-K has not materially changed since we filed that report.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in 
certain competition with the third party.
Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020.
The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


item3.txt
We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.
Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk.
Credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our investments are diversified across several types of securities with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one investment.
We may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries.


part2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement.
The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in 
Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020.
The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


