item1.txt
However, in management’s opinion, the financial information reflects all adjustments, including those of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented.
The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year.
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
As a result of adoption, the Company recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $16.2 million to the income tax provision for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
At December 29, 2017, the Company had $13.6 million for capital equipment that was accrued to other long-term liabilities, and $8.6 million for capital equipment that was accrued to accounts payable.
These amounts accrued for capital equipment purchases have been excluded from the consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended December 29, 2017, and are expected to be paid in subsequent periods.
The Company measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis such as its financial instruments.
The Company reassesses the fair value of its contingent consideration liabilities on a quarterly basis and records any fair value adjustments to earnings in the period that they are determined.
There were no changes to the fair value of the Level 3 liabilities during the three months ended December 29, 2017.
The Company’s non-financial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets resulting from business combinations, are measured at fair value using income approach valuation methodologies at the date of acquisition and are subsequently re-measured if there are indicators of impairment.
The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of its fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired.
The difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the 24.6% United States federal statutory rate for the three months ended December 29, 2017, resulted primarily from a one-time charge of $257.8 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of the deferred tax assets and liabilities related to tax reform, and an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, and a benefit of $16.2 million related to windfall stock deductions.
On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law new tax legislation, which includes, among other things, a reduction of the United States corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, repeal of the corporate alternative minimum tax and the domestic production activities deduction, and expensing of certain capital investments.
Accrued taxes of $62.5 million and $32.2 million have been included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets as of December 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016, respectively.
The Company has accrued $237.2 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of December 29, 2017.
Certain balances accrued by the Company during the three months ended December 29, 2017, related to the enactment of the legislation, including a charge related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings and the revaluation of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, are based on estimates which will be refined during the measurement period as defined in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118.
The Company has not recorded any liability for these indemnities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and does not expect that such obligations will have a material adverse impact on its financial condition or results of operations.
On January 17, 2017, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $500 million of its common stock from time to time prior to January 17, 2019, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
During the three months ended December 29, 2017, the Company paid $172.5 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 1.65 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $104.52 per share).
On January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $1 billion of its common stock from time to time prior to January 31, 2020, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
The timing and amount of any shares of the Company’s common stock that are repurchased under the new repurchase program will be determined by the Company’s 
On February 5, 2018, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had declared a cash dividend on its common stock of $0.32 per share, payable on March 15, 2018, to the Company’s stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 22, 2018.
During the three months ended December 29, 2017, the Company declared and paid a $0.32 dividend per common share with a total charge to retained earnings of $58.8 million.
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding during the period.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of equity based awards that were outstanding during the three months ended December 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016, using the treasury stock method.


item2.txt
•Net revenue increased by 15% to $1,052 million for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
•Our ending cash and cash equivalents balance increased approximately 4% to $1,682 million as of December 29, 2017, from $1,617 million as of September 29, 2017.
This increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily the result of cash generated from operations of $361 million, partially offset by the repurchase of 1.65 million shares of common stock for $173 million, dividend payments of $59 million, and capital expenditures of $28 million during the three months ended December 29, 2017.
We generated net revenue of $1,051.9 million for the three months ended December 29, 2017, an increase of $137.6 million or 15%, as compared with $914.3 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
This increase in net revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2017, is primarily related to an increase in demand for our components from a key smartphone customer as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, partially offset by decreases in average selling prices.
The $72.9 million increase in gross profit for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of favorable product mix and higher unit volumes that positively impacted gross profit by $81.2 million.
Gross profit margin increased to 51.0% of net revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, due to the overall increase in revenue and the aforementioned factors.
The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development– related expenses.
Research and development expense increased as a percentage of net revenue when compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017 as a result of our increased investment in developing new product capabilities.
The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee compensation.
Selling, general and administrative expense decreased as a percentage of net revenue when compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017 primarily due to the increase in net revenue.
The decrease in amortization expense for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily due to the end of the useful lives of certain intangible assets that were acquired in prior fiscal years.
During the three months ended December 29, 2017, we generated $360.8 million of cash from operating activities, a decrease of $135.1 million as compared with the $495.9 million generated during the three months ended December 30, 2016.
The decrease in cash flow from operating activities during the three months ended December 29, 2017, was primarily related to a net change in cash outflows of $156.3 million related to a decrease in accounts payable as a result of the timing of vendor payments.
•$172.5 million related to our repurchase of 1.65 million shares of our common stock pursuant to the stock repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors on January 17, 2017; 
•$59.1 million related to the payment of cash dividends on our common stock; and
These uses of cash were partially offset by the net proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $14.4 million during the three months ended December 29, 2017.
The increase resulted from $360.8 million in cash generated from operations which was partially offset by $172.5 million used to repurchase 1.65 million shares of stock, $59.1 million in cash dividend payments, $44.7 million used to repurchase shares related to payroll tax withholdings on equity awards, and $28.2 million in capital expenditures.
Based on our historical results of operations, we expect that our cash and cash equivalents on hand and the cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, working capital, quarterly cash dividend payments (if such dividends are declared by the Board of Directors), outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with existing operations for at least the next 12 months.
On January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program, pursuant to which we are authorized to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock from time to time prior to January 31, 2020, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
On January 30, 2018, the Compensation Committee (the “Compensation Committee”) of the Company’s Board of Directors amended the Company’s Fiscal Year 2018 Executive Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) to provide that the portion of the incentive awards under the Incentive Plan that previously was attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP earnings per share (“EPS”) performance metric will instead be attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP operating income performance metric.
The Compensation Committee approved the change in metrics in light of the favorable impact on the Company’s non-GAAP EPS for fiscal year 2018 that is now expected as a result of the new U.S. tax legislation, which was enacted on December 22, 2017, as well as the potential favorable impact on non-GAAP EPS of the Company’s new stock repurchase program.


item3.txt
In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance.
The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application.
The assessment process consists of reviewing its current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to our revenue contracts and identifying appropriate changes to the business processes, systems and controls to support revenue recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard.
We are currently evaluating the potential impact on our business processes, systems, controls and our consolidated financial statements of the new revenue standard and do not anticipate significant changes to our statement of operations.
The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted.
We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted.
We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset.
The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December, 15, 2017, on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating the effect ASU 2016-16 will have on the consolidated financial statements.


part2.txt
On January 30, 2018, the Compensation Committee (the “Compensation Committee”) of the Company’s Board of Directors amended the Company’s Fiscal Year 2018 Executive Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) to provide that the portion of the incentive awards under the Incentive Plan that previously was attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP earnings per share (“EPS”) performance metric will instead be attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP operating income performance metric.
The non-GAAP operating income performance metric was established by the Compensation Committee on November 7, 2017, concurrently with the non-GAAP EPS performance metric.
The Compensation Committee approved the change in metrics in light of the favorable impact on the Company’s non-GAAP EPS for fiscal year 2018 that is now expected as a result of the new U.S. tax legislation, which was enacted on December 22, 2017, as well as the potential favorable impact on non-GAAP EPS of the Company’s new stock repurchase program.
The Compensation Committee believes this change maintains the original rigor of the performance incentive objectives of the Incentive Plan.
Effective January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved and adopted an amendment to our Third Amended and Restated By-laws (the “By-laws”) to grant stockholders the right to call a special meeting of stockholders.
Prior to the adoption of this provision, a special meeting of stockholders could only be called pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors.
Article II, Section 3 of the By-laws has been amended to permit stockholders who, individually or in the aggregate, own at least 25% of our outstanding shares of common stock and who have held such shares continuously for at least one year prior to their request, to call a special meeting of stockholders, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the By-laws.


