fls.txt
Forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the words “would,” “could,” “will,” “may,” “expect,” “believe,” “should,” “anticipate,” “if,” “future,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “potential,” “target,” “seek,” or “continue” and similar words and phrases, including the negatives of these terms, or other variations of these terms, that denote future events.


item1.txt
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Except for the adoption of the new accounting standards for leases mentioned below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 13, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The accounting by lessors will remain largely unchanged from that applied under previous U.S. GAAP.
In addition, the Company elected the practical expedient to recognize lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized both right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities of approximately $7.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively, on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
There was no impact on the condensed consolidated statement of income or the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Company's cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities are classified within Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2019, was approximately $5.5 million, comprising approximately $4.2 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $0.9 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
As the net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals are considered performance conditions, expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the service period based on an assessment of the achievement of the performance targets.
If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
Expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recorded throughout the year depending on the number of shares expected to vest based on progress toward the performance target.
If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
The Company is organized and operates as one reportable segment, the design, development, manufacture and marketing of integrated circuits and related components for use primarily in the high-voltage power-conversion market.
The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance.
The Company's top ten customers accounted for approximately 56% and 54% of net revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and approximately 59% and 58%, respectively, of net revenues in the corresponding periods of the previous year.


item2.txt
See also “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report.
A large percentage of our products are ICs used in AC-DC power supplies, which convert the high-voltage AC from a wall outlet to the low-voltage DC required by most electronic devices.
Power supplies incorporating our products are used with all manner of electronic products including mobile phones, computing and networking equipment, appliances, electronic utility meters, power tools, industrial controls, and “smart-home,” or “internet of things” applications such as networked thermostats, power strips and other building-automation and security devices.
We also supply high-voltage LED drivers, which are AC-DC ICs specifically designed for lighting applications that utilize light-emitting diodes.
These combinations of switches and drivers are used for power conversion in high-power applications (i.e., power levels ranging from a few kilowatts up to one gigawatt) such as industrial motors, solar- and wind-power systems, electric vehicles and high-voltage DC transmission systems.
Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficacy of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
These tools and services include our PI Expert™ design software, which we offer free of charge, and our transformer-sample service.
For example, our EcoSmart™ technology drastically reduces the amount of energy consumed by electronic products when they are not in use, helping our customers comply with regulations that seek to curb this so-called “standby” energy consumption.
In 2018 we introduced our BridgeSwitch™ motor-driver ICs, as described above.
Also contributing to our SAM expansion has been the emergence of new applications within the power ranges that our products can address.


item3.txt
There has not been a material change in our exposure to foreign currency exchange and interest rate risks from that described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
We consider cash invested in highly liquid financial instruments with a remaining maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.


item4.txt
Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance as to the tested objectives.


part2.txt



