Except for adopting a new accounting standard related to leases, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception. Operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 months are included in operating lease assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over the lease term.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted using our incremental borrowing rate. Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives. Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities. 
Refer to Note 3 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases under which lease assets and liabilities are recognized on the balance sheet. We adopted this guidance on January 28, 2019 using the optional transition method by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet. Refer to Note 3 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. We will be required to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivable and other financial instruments, including available-for-sale debt securities. We expect to adopt the standard using the modified retrospective transition method beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. While we are still evaluating the impact of this standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements, we do not currently believe it will have a material impact upon adoption. 
Note 2 - Acquisition of Mellanox Technologies, Ltd.
On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox Technologies Ltd., or Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement. In June 2019, Mellanox shareholders approved the acquisition. The closing of the acquisition is subject to approval by regulatory agencies. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million. We have received regulatory approval in the United States and Mexico and are engaged with regulators in Europe and China. Although discussions with the European Union and China regulatory bodies are progressing and closing the acquisition is possible by the end of this calendar year, we believe the closing will likely occur in the early part of calendar 2020. 
On January 28, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard using the optional transition method by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet and not adjusting comparative information for prior periods. In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases. 
The cumulative-effect adjustment upon adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of $470 million of operating lease assets and $500 million of operating lease liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The difference of $30 million represents deferred rent for leases that existed as of the date of adoption, which was an offset to the opening balance of operating lease assets.
Our lease obligations consist of operating leases for our headquarters complex, domestic and international office facilities, and data center space, with lease periods expiring between fiscal years 2020 and 2035.
In addition to our existing operating lease obligations, we have entered into an operating lease that will commence in fiscal year 2021 with a lease term of 7 years for $62 million.
Operating lease expense for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020 was $28 million and $83 million, respectively. Operating lease expense for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019 was $22 million and $58 million, respectively. Short-term and variable lease expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020 were not significant. 
As of October 27, 2019, there was $1.95 billion of aggregate unearned stock-based compensation expense, net of forfeitures. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years for RSUs, PSUs, and market-based PSUs, and 1.0 year for ESPP.
We recognized an income tax expense of $60 million and $109 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020, respectively, and an income tax benefit of $149 million and $3 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, respectively. The income tax expense as a percentage of income before income tax was 6.3% and 5.6% for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020, respectively, and income tax benefit as a percentage of income before income tax was 13.8% and nominal for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, respectively.
The increase in our effective tax rate for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020 as compared to the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to a decrease of tax benefits from stock-based compensation and an absence of the tax benefit related to the reduction in our provisional U.S. tax reform transition tax amount.
resolved with the respective tax authorities. As of October 27, 2019, we do not believe that our estimates, as otherwise provided for, on such tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next twelve months.
Our cash equivalents and marketable securities are classified as “available-for-sale” debt securities.
For the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, there were no other-than-temporary impairment losses and net realized gains were not significant.
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets. We review fair value hierarchy classification on a quarterly basis.
Deferred revenue primarily includes customer advances and deferrals related to license and development arrangements and post contract customer support, or PCS. 
The following table shows the changes in deferred revenue during the first nine months of fiscal years 2020 and 2019.
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges for hedge accounting treatment. Gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur. The fair value of the contracts was not significant as of October 27, 2019 and January 27, 2019.
We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. These forward contracts were not designated for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in other income or expense and offsets the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which is also recorded in other income or expense.
As of October 27, 2019, all designated foreign currency forward contracts mature within eighteen months. The expected realized gains and losses deferred into accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to foreign currency forward contracts within the next twelve months was not significant.
During the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, the impact of derivative financial instruments designated for hedge accounting treatment on other comprehensive income or loss was not significant and all such instruments were determined to be highly effective. Therefore, there were no gains or losses associated with ineffectiveness.
The Notes are our unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The Notes are structurally subordinated to the liabilities of our subsidiaries and are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. All existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior to the Notes.
We have a Credit Agreement under which we may borrow up to $575 million for general corporate purposes and can obtain revolving loan commitments up to $425 million. As of October 27, 2019, we had not borrowed any amounts under this agreement.
We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes. As of October 27, 2019, we had not issued any commercial paper.
As of October 27, 2019, we had outstanding inventory purchase obligations totaling $980 million and other purchase obligations totaling $138 million.
Revenue related to remaining performance obligations represents the amount of contracted license and development arrangements and PCS that has not been recognized. As of October 27, 2019, the amount of our remaining performance 
obligations that has not been recognized as revenue was $395 million, of which we expect to recognize approximately 47% as revenue over the next twelve months and the remainder thereafter. This amount excludes the value of remaining performance obligations for contracts with an original expected length of one year or less.
The estimated amount of product returns and warranty liabilities was $17 million and $18 million as of October 27, 2019 and January 27, 2019, respectively, and the activity related to the warranty liabilities were not significant.
the impact of cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand. The plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief, including disgorgement of profits from the sale of NVIDIA stock and unspecified corporate governance measures. 
On May 3, 2019, an alleged stockholder of Mellanox filed a putative class action lawsuit alleging that the proxy statement filed by Mellanox in connection with the stockholder vote on NVIDIA’s pending acquisition of Mellanox violates Sections 14(a) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and asserting claims under those statutes against Mellanox and its board of directors as well as NVIDIA. The complaint, which is captioned Stein v. Mellanox Technologies, Ltd., et al., Case No. 19-2428 (United States District Court, Northern District of California), seeks declaratory and injunctive relief and unspecified damages. A number of other alleged Mellanox stockholders have filed substantially similar lawsuits against Mellanox and its directors in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, but NVIDIA was not named as a defendant in any of these other lawsuits. As of October 14, 2019, all stockholder lawsuits relating to NVIDIA’s pending acquisition of Mellanox, including the Stein lawsuit, had been voluntarily dismissed by the respective plaintiffs.
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock.
During the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020, we paid $98 million and $292 million, respectively, in cash dividends to our shareholders.
As of October 27, 2019 and January 27, 2019, there were no shares of preferred stock outstanding.
We are authorized to issue up to 2.00 billion shares of our common stock at $0.001 per share par value.
We report our business in two primary reportable segments - the GPU business and the Tegra Processor business - based on a single underlying architecture. 
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for artificial intelligence, data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users. 
Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for game consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices. 
Under the single unifying architecture for our GPU and Tegra Processors, we leverage our visual computing expertise by charging the operating expenses of certain core engineering functions to the GPU business, while charging the Tegra Processor business for the incremental cost of the teams working directly for that business. In instances where the operating expenses of certain functions benefit both reportable segments, our CODM assigns 100% of those expenses to the reportable segment that benefits the most. 
One customer represented approximately 10% of our total revenue for the third quarter and approximately 11% of our total revenue for the first nine months of fiscal year 2020, and was attributable primarily to the GPU business. No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019.
One customer represented approximately 24% of our accounts receivable balance as of October 27, 2019, and one customer represented approximately 19% of our accounts receivable balance as of January 27, 2019.
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 27, 2019. Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019. Other than the risk factors listed below, there have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 28, 2019.
Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, outages at cloud service providers, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. The occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. Any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations, finished goods inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. In addition, a large portion of our current datacenter capacity is located in California, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical areas. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, and Korea. Additionally, a significant portion of our finished goods product distribution occurs through Hong Kong. Geopolitical change or changes in government regulations and policies in the United States or abroad may result in changing regulatory requirements, trade policies, import duties and economic disruptions that could impact our operating strategies, 
