See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Basis of Presentation
Significant Accounting Policies
Except for the accounting policy for leases, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to leases, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception. Operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 months are included in operating lease assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over the lease term.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted using our incremental borrowing rate. Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives. Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities. 
Refer to Note 3 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Fiscal Year
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January. Fiscal years 2020 and 2019 are both 52-week years. The first quarters of fiscal years 2020 and 2019 were both 13-week quarters.
Principles of Consolidation
Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases under which lease assets and liabilities are recognized on the balance sheet. We adopted this guidance on January 28, 2019 using the optional transition method by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet. Refer to Note 3 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Recent Accounting Pronouncement Not Yet Adopted
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. We will be required to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivable and other financial instruments, including available-for-sale debt securities. The standard will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Note 2 - Merger Agreement with Mellanox Technologies, Ltd.
On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox Technologies Ltd, or Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement. The closing of the merger is subject to certain conditions, including the approval by Mellanox shareholders and various regulatory agencies. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million.
Method and Impact of Adoption
On January 28, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard using the optional transition method by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet and not adjusting comparative information for prior periods. In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases. 
The cumulative-effect adjustment upon adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of $470 million of operating lease assets and $500 million of operating lease liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The difference of $30 million represents deferred rent for leases that existed as of the date of adoption, which was an offset to the opening balance of operating lease assets.
Our lease obligations consist of operating leases for our headquarters complex, domestic and international office facilities, and data center space, with lease periods expiring between 2019 and 2035.
Operating lease expense for the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019 was $27 million and $16 million, respectively. Short-term and variable lease expenses for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 were not significant. 
Equity Award Activity
Of the total fair value of equity awards granted during the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, we estimated that the stock-based compensation expense related to equity awards that are not expected to vest was $85 million. 
As of April 28, 2019, there was $2.27 billion of aggregate unearned stock-based compensation expense. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.7 years for RSUs, PSUs, and market-based PSUs, and 1.3 years for ESPP.
Note 5 – Net Income Per Share
We recognized an income tax benefit of $5 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and income tax expense of $67 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The income tax benefit as a percentage of income before income tax was 1.3% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and income tax expense as a percentage of income before tax was 5.1% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. 
The decrease in our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year was primarily due to a decrease in the amount of earnings subject to United States tax, and an increase in the impact of tax benefits from stock-based compensation and the U.S. federal research tax credit.
Note 7 - Marketable Securities 
Our cash equivalents and marketable securities are classified as “available-for-sale” debt securities.
The gross unrealized losses are related to fixed income securities, temporary in nature, and driven primarily by changes in interest rates. We have the intent and ability to hold our investments until maturity. For the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, there were no other-than-temporary impairment losses and net realized gains were not significant.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of cash equivalents and marketable securities as of April 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019 are shown below by contractual maturity. 
Note 8 – Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities
Note 9 - Amortizable Intangible Assets
The increase in gross carrying amount of intangible assets is due to purchases of licensed technology during the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Amortization expense associated with intangible assets was $7 million and $11 million for the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. Future amortization expense related to the net carrying amount of intangible assets as of April 28, 2019 is estimated to be $18 million for the remainder of fiscal year 2020, $17 million in fiscal year 2021, $9 million in fiscal year 2022, $7 million in fiscal year 2023, and $3 million in fiscal year 2024. 
Deferred Revenue 
The following table shows the changes in deferred revenue during the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019.
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges for hedge accounting treatment. Gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur. The fair value of the contracts was not significant as of April 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019.
We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. These forward contracts were not designated for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in other income or expense and offsets the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which is also recorded in other income or expense.
As of April 28, 2019, all designated foreign currency forward contracts mature within eighteen months. The expected realized gains and losses deferred into accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to foreign currency forward contracts within the next twelve months was not significant.
Note 12 - Debt
Long-Term Debt
2.20% Notes Due 2021 and 3.20% Notes Due 2026
In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the 2.20% Notes Due 2021, and $1.00 billion of the 3.20% Notes Due 2026, or collectively, the Notes. Interest on the Notes is payable on March 16 and September 16 of each year, beginning on March 16, 2017. Upon 30 days' notice to holders of the Notes, we may redeem the Notes for cash prior to maturity, at redemption prices that include accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and a make-whole premium. However, no make-whole premium will be paid for redemptions of the Notes Due 2021 on or after August 16, 2021, or for redemptions of the Notes Due 2026 on or after June 16, 2026. The net proceeds from the Notes were $1.98 billion, after deducting debt discount and issuance costs.
The Notes are our unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The Notes are structurally subordinated to the liabilities of our subsidiaries and are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. All existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior to the Notes.
We have a Credit Agreement under which we may borrow up to $575 million for general corporate purposes and can obtain revolving loan commitments up to $425 million. As of April 28, 2019, we had not borrowed any amounts under this agreement.
Commercial Paper
We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes. As of April 28, 2019, we had not issued any commercial paper.
Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies
Inventory Purchase Obligations
As of April 28, 2019, we had outstanding inventory purchase obligations totaling $782 million.
Capital Purchase Obligations
As of April 28, 2019, we had outstanding capital purchase obligations totaling $194 million.
Performance Obligations
Accrual for Product Warranty Liabilities
The estimated amount of product returns and warranty liabilities was $18 million as of both April 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019.
Litigation
Polaris Innovations Limited
On May 16, 2016, Polaris Innovations Limited, or Polaris, a non-practicing entity and wholly-owned subsidiary of Quarterhill Inc. (formerly WiLAN Inc.), filed a complaint against NVIDIA for patent infringement in the United States and Germany.
NVIDIA and Polaris entered into an agreement effective April 3, 2019 that settled the litigation between the parties, which had an immaterial impact on our financial results. The agreement includes a license to NVIDIA for certain patents owned by Polaris, as well as options for NVIDIA to renew the license through the life of the patents.
On February 22, 2018, the Delaware Court stayed the ZiiLabs 1 case pending the resolution of the U.S. International Trade Commission, or USITC, investigation over the ZiiLabs 2 patents.
On December 29, 2017, ZiiLabs filed a request with the USITC to commence an Investigation pursuant to Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 relating to the unlawful importation of certain graphics processors and products containing the same. ZiiLabs alleged that the unlawful importation resulted from the infringement of the ZiiLabs 2 Patents by products from respondents NVIDIA, ASUSTeK Computer Inc., ASUS Computer International, EVGA Corporation, Gigabyte Technology Co., Ltd., G.B.T. Inc., Micro-Star International Co., Ltd., MSI Computer Corp., Nintendo Co., Ltd., Nintendo of America Inc., PNY Technologies Inc., Zotac International (MCO) Ltd., and Zotac USA Inc.
Securities Class Action and Derivative Lawsuits
Litigation Related to Mellanox Merger
On May 3, 2019, an alleged stockholder of Mellanox filed a putative class action lawsuit alleging that the proxy statement filed by Mellanox in connection with the stockholder vote on NVIDIA’s pending acquisition of Mellanox violates Sections 14(a) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and asserting claims under those statutes against Mellanox and its board of directors as well as NVIDIA. The complaint, which is captioned Stein v. Mellanox Technologies, Ltd., et al., Case No. 19-2428 (United States District Court, Northern District of California), seeks declaratory and injunctive relief and unspecified damages. A number of other alleged Mellanox stockholders have filed substantially similar lawsuits against Mellanox and its directors in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, but to date, NVIDIA has not been named as a defendant in any of these other lawsuits.
Accounting for Loss Contingencies
Capital Return Program 
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, we paid $97 million in cash dividends to our shareholders.
Preferred Stock
As of April 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019, there were no shares of preferred stock outstanding.
We report our business in two primary reportable segments - the GPU business and the Tegra Processor business - based on a single underlying architecture. 
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for artificial intelligence, data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for game consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices. 
Under the single unifying architecture for our GPU and Tegra Processors, we leverage our visual computing expertise by charging the operating expenses of certain core engineering functions to the GPU business, while charging the Tegra Processor business for the incremental cost of the teams working directly for that business. In instances where the operating expenses of certain functions benefit both reportable segments, our CODM assigns 100% of those expenses to the reportable segment that benefits the most. 
Accounts receivable from significant customers, those representing more than 10% of total accounts receivable, aggregated approximately 21% of our accounts receivable balance from one customer as of April 28, 2019, and approximately 19% of our accounts receivable balance from one customer as of January 27, 2019.
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 27, 2019. Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019. Other than the risk factor listed below, there have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
•assumption of liabilities and incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of acquired assets;
•integrating financial forecasting and controls, procedures and reporting cycles;
•coordinating and integrating operations in countries in which we have not previously operated;
•difficulty in realizing a satisfactory return, if at all;
•difficulty in obtaining regulatory, other approvals or financing;
•legal proceedings initiated as a result of an acquisition or investment;
•the need to later divest acquired assets if an acquisition does not meet our expectations;
