The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
As permitted by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, these notes are condensed and do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
As a result of the adoption of ASC 842 "Leases," Cognex Corporation (the "Company") has provided new disclosures related to leases in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
The core principle of ASC 842 is that a lessee should recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities that arise from leases.
At inception of a contract, the Company determines whether that contract is or contains a lease.
The Company determines whether a contract contains a lease by assessing whether there is an identified asset and whether the contract conveys the right to control the use of the identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
The Company has control of the asset if it has the right to direct the use of the asset and obtains substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the asset throughout the period of use.
As a practical expedient, the Company does not recognize a lease asset or lease liability for leases with a lease term of 12 months or less.
In the determination of the lease term, the Company considers the existence of extension or termination options and the probability of those options being exercised.
Lease contracts may include lease components and non-lease components, such as common area maintenance and utilities for property leases.
As a practical expedient, the Company accounts for the non-lease components together with the lease components as a single lease component for all of its leases.
The lease liability equals the present value of the future cash payments discounted using the Company's incremental borrowing rate.
The Company’s incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments over a similar term, which is the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a 2.5% credit risk spread.
The lease liability is reduced by the cash payment less the interest each period.
ASU 2016-13 applies to all reporting entities holding financial assets that are not accounted for at fair value through net income (debt securities).
The amendments in this ASU eliminate the probable initial recognition threshold to recognize a credit loss under current U.S. GAAP and, instead, reflect an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses.
The amendments in this ASU require that credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities be presented as an allowance rather than as a write-down and an entity will be able to record reversals of credit losses in current period net income.
ASU 2017-08 applies to all reporting entities that hold investments in callable debt securities that have an amortized cost basis in excess of the amount that is repayable by the issuer at the earliest call date (that is, at a premium).
The amendments in this ASU shorten the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium.
Specifically, the amendments require the premium to be amortized to the earliest call date.
The amendments do not require an accounting change for securities held at a discount; the discount continues to be amortized to maturity.
Under current GAAP, premiums and discounts on callable debt securities generally are amortized to the maturity date.
If that callable debt security is subsequently called, the entity records a loss equal to the unamortized premium.
The amendments in this ASU more closely align the amortization period of premiums and discounts to expectations incorporated in market pricing on the underlying securities.
This ASU should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption, and, in the period of adoption, the entity is required to provide disclosures about the change in accounting principle.
The amendments in this ASU align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
Accordingly, the amendments in this ASU require an entity in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract to follow the guidance in Subtopic 350-40 to determine which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense.
Further, it requires the entity to expense the capitalized implementation costs over the term of the hosting arrangement.
In addition, it requires the presentation of the expenses related to the capitalized implementation costs in the same line item in the statement of income as the fees associated with the hosting element of the arrangement and the classification of the payments for the capitalized implementation costs in the statement of cash flows in the same manner as the payments made for the fees associated with the hosting element.
The Company’s money market instruments are reported at fair value based upon the daily market price for identical assets in active markets, and are therefore classified as Level 1.
Management is responsible for estimating the fair value of these financial assets and liabilities, and in doing so, considers valuations provided by a large, third-party pricing service.
They use this information to structure yield curves for various types of debt securities and arrive at the daily valuations.
The Company's forward contracts are typically traded or executed in over-the-counter markets with a high degree of pricing transparency.
The market participants are generally large commercial banks.
The Company did not record an other-than-temporary impairment of these financial assets during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019.
The Company's contingent consideration liabilities are reported at fair value based upon probability-adjusted present values of the consideration expected to be paid, using significant inputs that are not observable in the market, and are therefore classified as Level 3.
Non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill, and intangible assets are required to be measured at fair value only when an impairment loss is recognized.
The Company did not record an impairment charge related to these assets during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019.
Treasury bills consist of debt securities issued by the U.S. government; corporate bonds consist of debt securities issued by both domestic and foreign companies; asset-backed securities consist of debt securities collateralized by pools of receivables or loans with credit enhancement; sovereign bonds consist of direct debt issued by foreign governments; municipal bonds consist of debt securities issued by state and local government entities; and agency bonds consist of domestic or foreign obligations of government agencies and government sponsored enterprises that have government backing.
All securities are denominated in U.S.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment of these investments.
In its evaluation, management considered the type of security, the credit rating of the security, the length of time the security has been in a loss position, the size of the loss position, the Company's intent and ability to hold the security to expected recovery of value, and other meaningful information.
The Company recorded gross realized gains and gross realized losses on the sale of debt securities totaling $64,000 and $24,000, respectively, during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019 and $55,000 and $33,000, respectively, during the three-month period ended April 1, 2018.
These gains and losses are included in "Investment income" on the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Prior to the sale of these securities, unrealized gains and losses for these debt securities, net of tax, are recorded in shareholders’ equity as other comprehensive income (loss).
Accordingly, the Company recorded lease assets of $17,522,000, current lease liabilities of $4,736,000, and non-current lease liabilities of $12,669,000 on its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 1, 2019.
The Company's leases are primarily leased properties across different worldwide locations where the Company conducts its operations.
Certain leases may contain options to extend or terminate the lease at the Company's sole discretion.
There were no options to extend or terminate that were included in the determination of the lease term for the leases outstanding as of March 31, 2019.
Certain leases contain leasehold improvement incentives, retirement obligations, escalating clauses, rent holidays, and variable payments tied to a consumer price index.
There were no restrictions or covenants for the leases outstanding as of March 31, 2019.
The total operating lease expense for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019 was $1,485,000.
The total operating lease cash payments for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019 was $1,401,000.
The total lease expense for leases with a term of twelve months or less for which the Company elected not to recognize a lease asset or lease liability was $169,000 for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019.
The discounted present value of the future lease cash payments resulted in a lease liability of $17,336,000 as of March 31, 2019.
The weighted-average discount rate was 4.8% for the leases outstanding as of March 31, 2019.
The Company did not have any leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations as of March 31, 2019.
The Company owns a building adjacent to its corporate headquarters that is partially occupied with a tenant who has a lease agreement that will expire in 2022.
Rental income was $77,000 and $76,000 for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, respectively.
The Company records the estimated cost of fulfilling product warranties at the time of sale based upon historical costs to fulfill claims.
Currently, the Company enters into economic hedges to manage this risk.
The gains and losses on these derivatives are intended to be offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets and liabilities being hedged.
Accounts receivable represent amounts billed and currently due from customers which are reported at their net estimated realizable value.
The Company maintains reserves against its accounts receivable for potential credit losses.
Credit losses recognized on accounts receivable were immaterial for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, respectively.
Contract assets consist of unbilled revenue which arises when revenue is recognized in advance of billing for certain application-specific customer solutions contracts.
As a practical expedient, the Company has elected not to disclose the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations, as our contracts have an original expected duration of less than one year.
The Company’s share-based payments that result in compensation expense consist of stock option grants and restricted stock awards.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had 16,956,452 shares available for grant.
Stock options are granted with an exercise price equal to the market value of the Company’s common stock at the grant date and generally vest over four or five years based upon continuous service and expire ten years from the grant date.
Generally, the current dividend yield is calculated by annualizing the cash dividend declared by the Company’s Board of Directors and dividing that result by the closing stock price on the grant date.
The expected term was derived from the binomial lattice model from the impact of events that trigger exercises over time.
The weighted-average grant-date fair values of stock options granted during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 were $18.59 and $21.62, respectively.
The total intrinsic values of stock options exercised for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 were $22,579,000 and $28,088,000, respectively.
The total fair values of stock options vested for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 were $29,972,000 and $25,674,000, respectively.
As of March 31, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested stock options was $75,985,000, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.14 years.
No compensation expense was capitalized as of March 31, 2019 or December 31, 2018.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company repurchased 203,000 shares at a cost of $8,622,000 under this program.
There were no shares repurchased in the three-month period ended March 31, 2019.
These differences resulted in a decrease in the effective tax rate of 9 and 7 percentage points for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, respectively.
The excess tax benefit arising from the difference between the deduction for tax purposes and the compensation cost recognized for financial reporting purposes from stock option exercises resulted in a decrease in the effective tax rate of 8 and 13 percentage points for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, respectively.
Estimated interest and penalties included in these amounts totaled $86,000 for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019.
The Company’s reserve for income taxes, including gross interest and penalties, was $8,776,000 as of March 31, 2019, which included $7,748,000 classified as a non-current liability and $1,028,000 recorded as a reduction to non-current deferred tax assets.
The amount of gross interest and penalties included in these balances was $940,000.
As a result of the expiration of certain statutes of limitations, there is a potential that a portion of these reserves could be released, which would decrease income tax expense by approximately $1,250,000 to $1,350,000 over the next twelve months.
On April 29, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.050 per share.
The dividend is payable on May 31, 2019 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on May 17, 2019.
Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.
