Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
Cognex Corporation is a leading worldwide provider of machine vision products that capture and analyze visual information in order to automate tasks, primarily in manufacturing processes, where vision is required.
In addition to product revenue derived from the sale of machine vision products, the Company also generates revenue by providing maintenance and support, consulting, and training services to its customers; however, service revenue accounted for less than 10% of total revenue for all periods presented.
The Company’s customers are predominantly in the factory automation market.
Factory automation customers purchase Cognex products and incorporate them into their manufacturing processes.
Customers in the consumer electronics and automotive industries contribute the largest percentage to the Company's factory automation revenue.
Most manufacturers can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, this market also includes a broad base of customers across a variety of other industries, including consumer products, food and beverage, medical devices, and pharmaceuticals.
Factory automation customers also purchase Cognex products for use outside of the manufacturing process, such as using ID products in logistics automation for package sorting and distribution.
A small percentage of the Company’s customers are in the semiconductor and electronics capital equipment market.
Accordingly, prior period revenue, cost of revenue, and gross profit have been restated to apply the provisions of this ASC.
was driven primarily by lower order levels from a few large customers in the consumer electronics industry and was partially offset by growth in the logistics industry.
The gross margin improved to 75% of revenue in the third quarter of 2018 from 74% of revenue in the third quarter of 2017, due primarily to a lower percentage of revenue related to application-specific customer solutions.
Operating expenses in the third quarter of 2018 increased by 10% over the third quarter of 2017 due principally to the impact of headcount additions to support our future growth plans.
As a result of the lower revenue and continued headcount investment, operating income decreased to 34% of revenue in the third quarter of 2018 from 42% of revenue in the third quarter of 2017.
Constant-currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period.
We generally refer to such amounts calculated on a constant-currency basis as excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes.
Results on a constant-currency basis are not in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Revenue decreased by $33,821,000, or 13%, for the three-month period and increased by $29,891,000, or 5%, for the nine-month period.
Revenue for both periods in 2018 was impacted by lower sales in the consumer electronics industry primarily due to significantly lower revenue from large customers in OLED (organic light-emitting diode) display and smartphone manufacturing following a high level of investment from these customers in 2017.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not have a material impact on revenue for the three-month period, but accounted for approximately 3% of the revenue increase for the nine-month period, primarily related to the translation of Euro denominated and Chinese Yuan denominated revenue to U.S.
Revenue from customers based in the Americas increased by 7% for the three-month period and by 22% for the nine-month period driven by strong sales in the logistics industry.
Revenue from customers based in Europe decreased by 21% for the three-month period and by 4% for the nine-month period, and revenue from customers based in Asia decreased by 11% for the three-month period and increased by 4% for the nine-month period.
Constant-currency revenue from customers based in Europe decreased by 9% for the nine-month period, and constant-currency revenue from customers based in Asia was relatively flat for the nine-month period.
As of the date of this report, we expect revenue for the fourth quarter of 2018 to decrease sequentially from the third quarter of 2018 due to lower sales in the consumer electronics industry, as well as anticipated lower demand from customers based in China.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 75% for both the three-month and nine-month periods in 2018, compared to 74% and 76% for same periods in 2017.
The increase for the three-month period was due primarily to a lower percentage of revenue related to application-specific customer solutions.
These solutions typically have lower gross margins due to the application configuration and deployment services included as part of the solution, as well as on-site support services provided after the solution is deployed.
In addition, these solutions are often provided to large customers that may receive favorable pricing.
The Company's gross margin percentage has ranged in the mid 70s for the past several years.
As of the date of this report, we expect the gross margin percentage for the fourth quarter of 2018 to continue to be within this historical range, but lower than the third quarter of 2018.
company bonuses and sales commissions, resulting from lower levels of achievement on performance plans that were set at the beginning of the year.
The Company recorded foreign currency losses of $379,000 and $708,000 for the three-month and nine-month periods in 2018, respectively, compared to foreign currency losses of $127,000 and $574,000 for the same periods in 2017.
Foreign currency gains and losses result primarily from the revaluation and settlement of accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany balances that are reported in one currency and collected in another.
The increase was due primarily to higher yields on the Company's portfolio of debt securities, as well as additional funds available for investment.
The Company recorded other expense of $129,000 and $98,000 for the three-month and nine-month periods in 2018, respectively, compared to other expense of $445,000 and $344,000 for the same periods in 2017.
The Company’s effective tax rate was an expense of 1% and 6% of pre-tax income for the three-month and nine-month periods in 2018, respectively, compared to an expense of 9% and 4% of pre-tax income for the same periods in 2017.
The Company made what it considered to be a reasonable estimate of the impact of the Tax Act in its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017.
In the third quarter of 2018, the Company recorded a decrease in tax expense of $7,699,000 from revised estimates of the impact of the Tax Act based on additional regulatory guidance.
Additional revisions to the estimates of the impact of the Tax Act may be required in the fourth quarter of 2018 as regulatory guidance continues to develop.
The Company cannot predict the level of stock option exercises by employees in future periods.
Excluding the impact of these discrete tax events, the Company’s effective tax rate was 16% for both the three-month and nine-month periods in 2018, compared to 18% for the same periods in 2017.
This decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act, which included a decrease in the U.S. federal statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%.
The statutory tax rate is 12.5% in Ireland and 25% in China.
The Company has not yet determined how the Tax Act will impact its financial statement assertion related to indefinite reinvestment in future years.
The Company has historically been able to generate positive cash flow from operations, which has funded its operating activities and other cash requirements and has resulted in an accumulated cash and investment balance of $809,316,000 as of September 30, 2018.
The Company has established guidelines relative to credit ratings, diversification, and maturities of its investments that maintain liquidity.
The Company’s cash requirements during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were met with positive cash flows from operations, investment maturities, and the proceeds from stock option exercises.
Cash requirements consisted of operating activities, investment purchases, the repurchase of common stock, the payment of dividends, and capital expenditures.
Capital expenditures in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018 totaled $27,356,000 and consisted primarily of computer hardware and software, manufacturing test equipment related to new product introductions, and improvements made to the Company's headquarters building in Natick, Massachusetts and distribution center in Cork, Ireland.
Cumulative capital expenditures since the second quarter of 2017 related to application development activities for a new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system totaled approximately $10,000,000.
This capital asset was placed into service in the third quarter of 2018 and is being depreciated over a ten year estimated useful life.
In February 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $150,000,000 of the Company's common stock.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had repurchased 1,947,000 shares at a cost of $97,062,000 under this program, leaving a remaining authorized balance of $52,938,000.
Total stock repurchases in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018 amounted to $142,262,000.
The Company’s business strategy includes selective expansion into new machine vision markets and applications through the acquisition of businesses and technologies.
Certain of the Company's business acquisitions have contractual obligations for deferred cash payments, contingent cash payments tied to performance, and special incentive cash payments tied to employment, none of which are material individually or in the aggregate to the Company's cash flows.
The Company believes that its existing cash and investment balances, together with cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to meet its operating, investing, and financing activities for the next twelve months.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had $809,316,000 in cash and investments.
In addition, Cognex has no long-term debt and does not anticipate needing debt financing in the near future.
We believe that our strong cash position has put us in a relatively good position with respect to our longer-term liquidity needs.
In October 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $200,000,000 of the Company's common stock.
This new authorization will commence once the Company completes the February 2018 program, with repurchases subject to market conditions and other relevant factors.
