item1.txt
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31. The four fiscal quarters in 2019 end on March 30, 2019, June 29, 2019, September 28, 2019, and December 31, 2019, respectively. The four fiscal quarters in 2018 ended on March 31, 2018, June 30, 2018, September 29, 2018, and December 31, 2018, respectively. 
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The ASU is the result of a project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The guidance in ASU No. 2016-02 and all related ASUs is codified in Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) Topic 842, Leases. The Company adopted ASC Topic 842 effective January 1, 2019. Upon adoption at January 1, 2019, the Company recognized right of use assets of $91,462 and lease liabilities of $95,784 on the consolidated balance sheet. The difference between the initial right of use asset and lease liability balances recognized upon adoption of ASC Topic 842 is primarily due to accrued lease incentive balances at December 31, 2018. 
On December 20, 2018, the Company received sale proceeds of $45,500 and concurrently leased-back its former manufacturing site in Santa Clara, California, under a short-term arrangement, to raze the buildings. Upon adoption of ASC Topic 842, the Company was required to reassess the accounting for these transactions. The transactions did not qualify as a completed sale and leaseback under previous GAAP. However, pursuant to ASC Topic 842’s sale and leaseback guidance, the transaction would qualify as a completed sale. The Company recognized a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings (accumulated deficit) of $23,013, to recognize the sale as of the date of adoption, and derecognized the land, building, and related deferred proceeds, which had been recorded in other accrued expenses. 
The Company recognizes right of use assets and lease liabilities for leases greater than twelve months in duration based on the contract consideration for lease components through the term of the lease and the applicable discount rate. Leases with a duration less than or equal to twelve months are considered short-term leases. The Company does not recognize right of use assets or lease liabilities for short-term leases and classifies the expense as short-term lease expense. Variable lease payments based on an index or rate are included in the right of use assets and lease liabilities based on the effective rates at lease commencement. Changes in the rates or indices do not impact the right of use asset or lease liability and are recognized as a component of lease expense in the statement of operations. Variable lease payments not based on an index or rate are not included in the initial right of use asset and lease liability and are recognized when incurred as a component of lease expense in the statement of operations. 
The Company has elected to not separate contract consideration for lease and non-lease components for its building leases. In addition to the noncancellable period of a lease, the Company includes periods covered by extension options it is reasonably certain to exercise, termination options that it is reasonably certain not to exercise, and extension and termination options controlled by the lessor in its determination of the lease term. The Company uses the rate implicit in the contract whenever possible when determining the applicable discount rate. When the implicit rate is not used, the Company employs a portfolio approach based on the duration of the lease. The portfolio lease rates are calculated monthly. 
The convertible senior debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 30, 2019 evaluation, due to the sale price of Vishay's common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods. The convertible senior debentures due 2040 will remain convertible until June 29, 2019, at which time the conversion criteria will be reevaluated. At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon future conversion of any of the convertible debt instruments, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible debt instruments in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock. The excess of the amount that the Company would pay to the holders of the convertible senior debentures due 2040 upon conversion over the carrying value of the liability component of the debentures currently convertible has been reclassified as temporary equity on the consolidated condensed financial statements. The Company intends to finance the principal amount of any converted debentures using borrowings under its credit facility. Accordingly, the debt component of the convertible senior debentures due 2040 continues to be classified as a non-current liability on the consolidated condensed balance sheets. 
The quarterly cash dividend program of the Company results in adjustments to the conversion rate and effective conversion price for the convertible debt instruments effective as of the ex-dividend date of each cash dividend. The conversion rate and effective conversion price for the convertible senior notes due 2025 is adjusted for quarterly cash dividends to the extent such dividends exceed $0.085 per share of common stock. 
Interest is payable on the convertible debt instruments semi-annually at the cash coupon rate; however, the remaining debt discount is being amortized as additional non-cash interest expense using an effective annual interest rate equal to the Company’s estimated nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of issuance. In addition to ordinary interest, contingent interest will accrue in certain circumstances relating to the trading price of the convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 and under certain other circumstances, beginning ten years subsequent to their respective issuance. The convertible senior notes due 2025 do not possess contingent interest features. 
The Company used cash to repurchase $960, $12,288 and $2,168 principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, respectively, in the first fiscal quarter of 2019. The net carrying value of the debentures repurchased were $396, $4,770, and $924, respectively. In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for convertible debentures, the aggregate repurchase payment of $22,695 was allocated between the liability ($7,311) and equity (including temporary equity, $15,384) components of the convertible debentures, using the Company's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of the repurchase. As a result, the Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of convertible debentures of $1,307, including the write-off of a portion of unamortized debt issuance costs. The convertible senior debentures due 2042 have been fully repurchased, and the trustee has confirmed that the Company has satisfied and discharged its obligations under the indenture governing the convertible senior debentures due 2042. 


item2.txt
We are focused on enhancing stockholder value and improving earnings per share. In addition to our growth plan, we also have opportunistically repurchased our stock and, as further described below, reduced dilution risks by repurchasing a portion of our convertible senior debentures. 
During 2018 we reacted quickly to the opportunities created by the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) in December 2017. During 2018 we repatriated approximately $724.0 million of cash to the U.S., net of taxes, and further simplified our balance sheet by refinancing some of our debt. In June 2018, we used the net proceeds from issuing $600 million principal amount of new convertible senior notes to repurchase some of our outstanding convertible senior debentures, which had become less tax-efficient because of the TCJA. During the fourth quarter of 2018, we utilized repatriated cash to repurchase additional convertible senior debentures in open market and privately-negotiated transactions with holders. As a result of these transactions, we reduced the principal amount of outstanding convertible senior debentures due 2040, 2041, and 2042 from $575 million to $36.6 million. During the first quarter of 2019, we continued to repurchase convertible senior debentures in open market and privately-negotiated transactions with holders, further reducing the principal amount of outstanding convertible senior debentures to $21.1 million. 
We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for various items that management believes are not indicative of the intrinsic operating performance of our business. We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. The reconciliations below include certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash. These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as alternatives to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. Non-GAAP measures such as adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash do not have uniform definitions. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Management believes that adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are meaningful because they provide insight with respect to our intrinsic operating results. Management believes that free cash is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends. 
Our results for the fiscal quarters ended March 30, 2019, December 31, 2018, and March 31, 2018 represent the effects of a strong business environment, our cost reduction programs, and our organic growth initiatives. We experienced a relatively sharp upturn in demand beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through first nine fiscal months of 2018. We began to experience a normalization of demand in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, which continued in the first fiscal quarter of 2019 as supply, in general, caught up with demand. Our percentage of euro-based sales approximates our percentage of euro-based expenses so the foreign currency impact on revenues was substantially offset by the impact on expenses. Our pre-tax results were consistent with expectations based on our business model. 
Gross profit margin is computed as gross profit as a percentage of net revenues. Gross profit is generally net revenues less costs of products sold, but also deducts certain other period costs, particularly losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs. Losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs have the impact of reducing gross profit margin in the period of the charge, but result in improved gross profit margins in subsequent periods by reducing costs of products sold as inventory is used. Gross profit margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues. We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin. Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income. Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gains or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues. We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment. Operating margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
An important indicator of demand in our industry is the book-to-bill ratio, which is the ratio of the amount of product ordered during a period as compared with the product that we ship during that period. A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods. Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues. 
The book-to-bill ratio in the first fiscal quarter of 2019 decreased to 0.79 versus 0.94 in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018. The book-to-bill ratios in the first fiscal quarter of 2019 for distributors and original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") were 0.54 and 1.10, respectively, versus ratios of 0.90 and 0.98, respectively, during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018. 
For the second fiscal quarter of 2019, we anticipate revenues between $700 million and $740 million and gross margins of 26% to 27% at the exchange rates of the first fiscal quarter of 2019. We anticipate that inventory reductions by distributors will have some negative impact on our revenues in the short-term. 
As part of our growth strategy, we seek to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which we have substantial marketing and technical expertise. This includes exploring opportunities to acquire targets to gain market share, penetrate different geographic markets, enhance new product development, round out our existing product lines, or grow our high margin niche market businesses. Acquisitions of passive components businesses would likely be made to strengthen and broaden our position as a specialty product supplier; acquisitions of discrete semiconductor businesses would be made to increase market share and to generate synergies. To limit our financial exposure, we have implemented a policy not to pursue acquisitions if our post-acquisition debt would exceed 2.5x our pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”). For these purposes, we calculate pro forma EBITDA as the adjusted EBITDA of Vishay and the target for Vishay’s four preceding fiscal quarters, with a pro forma adjustment for savings which management estimates would have been achieved had the target been acquired by Vishay at the beginning of the four fiscal quarter period. 
We define variable costs as expenses that vary with respect to quantity produced. Fixed costs do not vary with respect to quantity produced over the relevant time period. Contributive margin is calculated as net revenue less variable costs. It may be expressed in dollars or as a percentage of net revenue. Management uses this measure to determine the amount of profit to be expected for any change in revenues. While these measures are typical cost accounting measures, none of these measures are recognized in accordance with GAAP. The classification of expenses as either variable or fixed is judgmental and other companies might classify such expenses differently. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 
Our long-term strategy includes growth through the integration of acquired businesses, and GAAP requires plant closure and employee termination costs that we incur in connection with our acquisition activities to be recorded as expenses in our consolidated statement of operations, as such expenses are incurred. We have not incurred any material plant closure or employee termination costs related to any of the businesses acquired since 2011, but we expect to have some level of future restructuring expenses due to acquisitions. 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. We occasionally use forward exchange contracts to economically hedge a portion of these exposures. 
GAAP requires that we identify the “functional currency” of each of our subsidiaries and measure all elements of the financial statements in that functional currency. A subsidiary’s functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. In cases where a subsidiary is relatively self-contained within a particular country, the local currency is generally deemed to be the functional currency. However, a foreign subsidiary that is a direct and integral component or extension of the parent company’s operations generally would have the parent company’s currency as its functional currency. We have both situations among our subsidiaries. 
We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the local currency as their functional currency. For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, assets and liabilities in the consolidated condensed balance sheets have been translated at the rate of exchange as of the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments do not impact the results of operations and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. 


item3.txt
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 15, 2019 describes certain of our legal proceedings. Except as described below, there have been no material developments to the legal proceedings previously disclosed. 


item4.txt
  31.1   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Dr. Gerald Paul, Chief Executive Officer.   
  31.2   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Lori Lipcaman, Chief Financial Officer.   


part2.txt
As previously reported, the Korean Ministry of Justice conducted a review of the conduct of Vishay Polytech Co., Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (“VPC”), at the request of the Korean Fair Trade Commission. At the conclusion of that review, the Seoul Central District Prosecutors’ Office issued a summary indictment of VPC, along with other respondents, for alleged violations of applicable antitrust laws. On March 4, 2019, the Seoul Central District Court issued a summary order finding that VPC had violated South Korea’s Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Law and imposed a penalty of approximately $44,000 against VPC. VPC waived its opportunity for a trial. 
  10.1   Amendment to Employment Agreement between between Vishay Electronic GmbH (an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.), Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., and Werner Gebhardt, dated February 22, 2019.   
  31.1   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Dr. Gerald Paul, Chief Executive Officer.   


