item1.txt
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31. The four fiscal quarters in 2019 end on March 30, 2019, June 29, 2019, September 28, 2019, and December 31, 2019, respectively. The four fiscal quarters in 2018 ended on March 31, 2018, June 30, 2018, September 29, 2018, and December 31, 2018, respectively.  
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The ASU is the result of a project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The guidance in ASU No. 2016-02 and all related ASUs is codified in Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) Topic 842, Leases. The Company adopted ASC Topic 842 effective January 1, 2019. Upon adoption at January 1, 2019, the Company recognized right of use assets of $91,462 and lease liabilities of $95,784 on the consolidated balance sheet. The difference between the initial right of use asset and lease liability balances recognized upon adoption of ASC Topic 842 is primarily due to accrued lease incentive balances at December 31, 2018.  
On December 20, 2018, the Company received sale proceeds of $45,500 and concurrently leased-back its former manufacturing site in Santa Clara, California, under a short-term arrangement, to raze the buildings. Upon adoption of ASC Topic 842, the Company was required to reassess the accounting for these transactions. The transactions did not qualify as a completed sale and leaseback under previous GAAP. However, pursuant to ASC Topic 842’s sale and leaseback guidance, the transaction would qualify as a completed sale. The Company recognized a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings (accumulated deficit) of $23,013, to recognize the sale as of the date of adoption, and derecognized the land, building, and related deferred proceeds, which had been recorded in other accrued expenses.  
The Company recognizes right of use assets and lease liabilities for leases greater than twelve months in duration based on the contract consideration for lease components through the term of the lease and the applicable discount rate. Leases with a duration less than or equal to twelve months are considered short-term leases. The Company does not recognize right of use assets or lease liabilities for short-term leases and classifies the expense as short-term lease expense. Variable lease payments based on an index or rate are included in the right of use assets and lease liabilities based on the effective rates at lease commencement. Changes in the rates or indices do not impact the right of use asset or lease liability and are recognized as a component of lease expense in the statement of operations. Variable lease payments not based on an index or rate are not included in the initial right of use asset and lease liability and are recognized when incurred as a component of lease expense in the statement of operations.  
The Company has elected to not separate contract consideration for lease and non-lease components for its building leases. In addition to the noncancellable period of a lease, the Company includes periods covered by extension options it is reasonably certain to exercise, termination options that it is reasonably certain not to exercise, and extension and termination options controlled by the lessor in its determination of the lease term. The Company uses the rate implicit in the contract whenever possible when determining the applicable discount rate. When the implicit rate is not used, the Company employs a portfolio approach based on the duration of the lease. The portfolio lease rates are calculated monthly.  
After completing these phases of cash repatriation, there is approximately $100,000 of unremitted foreign earnings remaining that the Company has deemed not permanently reinvested and thus has accrued foreign withholding and other taxes. The Company continues to evaluate the timing of the reparation of these remaining amounts, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts.   
As part of the Company’s cash repatriation activity, the Company settled an intercompany loan in the second fiscal quarter of 2019, which previously had been accounted for at the historical foreign exchange rate (akin to an equity contribution) because the debtor entity did not have the intent or ability to repay such intercompany loan. Currency translation adjustments were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, and were not included in U.S. GAAP pre-tax income. The Company’s cash repatriation activity resulted in the ability to repay such intercompany loan. Upon settlement of this intercompany loan, the foreign entity realized a taxable gain. Income tax expense for the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019 includes tax expense of $7,554 related to this tax-basis foreign exchange gain.  
The Company’s repurchase of a portion of the outstanding convertible debentures in the first fiscal quarter of 2019 (see Note 7) slightly reduced the Company’s expected 2019 tax rate. The Company recognized a tax benefit on the pre-tax loss on early extinguishment of debt. The Company also recognized a tax benefit of $1,312, reflecting the reduction in deferred tax liabilities related to the special tax attributes of the extinguished debentures.  
On June 5, 2019, the Company entered into a new credit agreement with a consortium of banks led by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders (the "New Credit Facility"), which provides an aggregate commitment of $750,000 of revolving loans available until June 5, 2024. The New Credit Facility replaces Vishay’s previous credit agreement that provided for an aggregate commitment of $640,000, and that was scheduled to mature on December 10, 2020. The New Credit Facility also provides for the ability of Vishay to request up to $300,000 of incremental facilities, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, which could take the form of additional revolving commitments, incremental “term loan A” or “term loan B” facilities, or incremental equivalent debt.  


item2.txt
Since 1985, we have pursued a business strategy of growth through focused research and development and acquisitions. Through this strategy, we have grown to become one of the world’s largest manufacturers of discrete semiconductors and passive components. We expect to continue our strategy of acquisitions while also maintaining a prudent capital structure. 
We are focused on enhancing stockholder value and improving earnings per share. In addition to our growth plan, we also have opportunistically repurchased our stock and, as further described below, reduced dilution risks by repurchasing a portion of our convertible senior debentures. 
In 2014, our Board of Directors instituted a quarterly dividend payment program and declared the first cash dividend in the history of Vishay. We have paid dividends each quarter since the first fiscal quarter of 2014, and further increased the quarterly cash dividend by 12% to $0.095 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2019. 
During 2018 we reacted quickly to the opportunities created by the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) in December 2017. During 2018 we repatriated approximately $724.0 million of cash to the U.S., net of taxes, and further simplified our balance sheet by refinancing some of our debt. In June 2018, we used the net proceeds from issuing $600 million principal amount of new convertible senior notes to repurchase some of our outstanding convertible senior debentures, which had become less tax-efficient because of the TCJA. During the fourth quarter of 2018, we utilized repatriated cash to repurchase additional convertible senior debentures in open market and privately-negotiated transactions with holders. As a result of these transactions, we reduced the principal amount of outstanding convertible senior debentures due 2040, 2041, and 2042 from $575 million to $36.6 million. We continued to repurchase convertible senior debentures in open market and privately-negotiated transactions with holders, further reducing the principal amount of outstanding convertible senior debentures to $21.1 million in 2019. 
We continued to re-shape our capital structure in 2019. We replaced our existing credit agreement that was due to expire in December 2020 with a new agreement that will expire June 5, 2024. The new credit facility increases the aggregate commitment of revolving loans from $640 million to $750 million; provides us with the ability to request up to $300 million of incremental facilities, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, which could take the form of additional revolving commitments, incremental “term loan A” or “term loan B” facilities, or incremental equivalent debt; reduces the undrawn commitment fee while maintaining the same borrowing rates; and provides greater operating flexibility, including with respect to intercompany funding and other transactions, to enable us to continue to streamline our complex subsidiary structure. 
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2019 were $628.3 million, compared to $685.2 million and $781.0 million for the fiscal quarters ended June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively. The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2019 were $30.0 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, compared to $44.5 million, or $0.31 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2019, and $77.9 million, or $0.51 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018. 
Our free cash results were significantly impacted by the payment of cash taxes related to the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2019 of $20.5 million and $18.3 million, respectively, and $92.1 million and $64.7 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively, and the installment payments of the U.S. transition tax of $14.8 million and $14.4 million in the second fiscal quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
Gross profit margin is computed as gross profit as a percentage of net revenues. Gross profit is generally net revenues less costs of products sold, but also deducts certain other period costs, particularly losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs. Losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs have the impact of reducing gross profit margin in the period of the charge, but result in improved gross profit margins in subsequent periods by reducing costs of products sold as inventory is used. Gross profit margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues. We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin. Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income. Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gains or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues. We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment. Operating margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
An important indicator of demand in our industry is the book-to-bill ratio, which is the ratio of the amount of product ordered during a period as compared with the product that we ship during that period. A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods. Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues. 
As part of our growth strategy, we seek to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which we have substantial marketing and technical expertise. This includes exploring opportunities to acquire targets to gain market share, penetrate different geographic markets, enhance new product development, round out our existing product lines, or grow our high margin niche market businesses. Acquisitions of passive components businesses would likely be made to strengthen and broaden our position as a specialty product supplier; acquisitions of discrete semiconductor businesses would be made to increase market share and to generate synergies. To limit our financial exposure, we have implemented a policy not to pursue acquisitions if our post-acquisition debt would exceed 2.5x our pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”). For these purposes, we calculate pro forma EBITDA as the adjusted EBITDA of Vishay and the target for Vishay’s four preceding fiscal quarters, with a pro forma adjustment for savings which management estimates would have been achieved had the target been acquired by Vishay at the beginning of the four fiscal quarter period. 
GAAP requires that we identify the “functional currency” of each of our subsidiaries and measure all elements of the financial statements in that functional currency. A subsidiary’s functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. In cases where a subsidiary is relatively self-contained within a particular country, the local currency is generally deemed to be the functional currency. However, a foreign subsidiary that is a direct and integral component or extension of the parent company’s operations generally would have the parent company’s currency as its functional currency. We have both situations among our subsidiaries. 
We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the local currency as their functional currency. For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, assets and liabilities in the consolidated condensed balance sheets have been translated at the rate of exchange as of the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments do not impact the results of operations and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. 
Our operations in Israel and most significant locations in Asia are largely financed in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. For those foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, all foreign currency financial statement amounts are remeasured into U.S. dollars. Exchange gains and losses arising from remeasurement of foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities are included in the results of operations. While these subsidiaries transact most business in U.S. dollars, they may have significant costs, particularly payroll-related, which are incurred in the local currency. The cost of products sold for the third fiscal quarter and first nine fiscal months of 2019 have been favorably impacted compared to the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods by local currency transactions of subsidiaries which use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. 
We experienced a substantial, broad-based increase in demand for our products beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through the third fiscal quarter of 2018. Demand started to decrease in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018 and the decrease has accelerated through the third fiscal quarter of 2019 as distributors have significantly reduced orders as they decrease their inventory. The decrease in demand resulted in decreased net revenues compared to the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. 


item3.txt
 Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     


item4.txt
 31.1 Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Dr. Gerald Paul, Chief Executive Officer.  


part2.txt
 Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities     
 10.1 Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement, dated as of September 20, 2019, among Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders and other parties thereto.  


