item1.txt
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31. The four fiscal quarters in 2018 end on March 31, 2018, June 30, 2018, September 29, 2018, and December 31, 2018, respectively. The four fiscal quarters in 2017 ended on April 1, 2017, July 1, 2017, September 30, 2017, and December 31, 2017, respectively. 
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). The ASU is the result of a convergence project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. The ASU removes inconsistencies and weaknesses in revenue requirements; provides a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues; improves comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions, and capital markets; provides more useful information to users of financial statements through expanded disclosure requirements; and simplifies the preparation of financial statements by reducing the number of requirements to which an entity must refer. The Company retrospectively adopted the ASU on January 1, 2018. The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations. See Note 2 and "Changes in Accounting Policies" below. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The ASU is the result of a project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. Upon adoption of the ASU, the Company will recognize lease assets and liabilities for its operating leases which are not currently reported on its consolidated balance sheets. The ASU is effective for the Company for interim and annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with the ability to early adopt. The Company is currently evaluating the effect of the ASU on its lease contracts. 
ASU 2014-09 introduces the concept of service-type warranties, which represent separate performance obligations. Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company considers its warranty obligations as service-type warranties and allocates a portion of the estimated consideration to be received from the related contract to the service-type warranty performance obligation and recognizes the related revenue over the warranty period. The impact of accounting for service-type warranties as separate performance obligations was not significant in the retrospective adoption period and is included in the tables below. See further discussion of the warranty obligations in Note 2. 
The Company previously recognized revenue when the sales process was completed, which generally occurred when the product was delivered and risk of loss was transferred to the customer. Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company analyzes its contractual arrangements to determine whether the promise in the contract to construct and transfer goods to the customer is a performance obligation that will be satisfied over time or at a point in time. When the Company's performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, the Company transfers control of a good or service over time and, therefore, satisfies a performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time. The Company has a limited number of contracts for custom products that meet the criteria to recognize revenue over time. The dollar amount of these custom products did not materially change during the retrospective adoption period. The Company recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment of $2,210 to January 1, 2016 retained earnings (accumulated deficit) and recorded adjustments to its consolidated balance sheets due to the impact of recognizing revenue for certain custom products over time rather than at a point in time. 
ASU 2014-09 provides several transition practical expedients. The Company has not restated completed contracts that begin and end in the same annual reporting period; used the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods; has not disclosed the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize the amount as revenue for the reporting periods presented prior to January 1, 2016; and has not retrospectively restated the contract for modifications made prior to January 1, 2016 and instead reflected the aggregate effect of all modifications when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price pursuant to the transition practical expedients available. 
ASU 2017-07 amends the income statement presentation requirements of net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. The service cost component of net periodic pension cost is recorded in the same line item or items as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by the pertinent employees during the period, and other components of net periodic pension cost are included on a separate line within other income (expense). The Company reclassified net benefit costs other than the current service component previously reported as cost of goods sold and selling, general, and administrative expenses to other expenses for each quarter in the retrospective adoption period in the table below. The Company also reclassified the $79,321 U.S. pension settlement charges recorded for the year ended December 31, 2016 to other expenses. See the impact of this change in the tables below. 
As of January 1, 2018, the Company recognizes revenue from contracts with customers in accordance with ASU 2014-09. The Company has framework agreements with many of its customers that contain the terms and conditions of future sales, but do not create enforceable rights or obligations. Per ASU 2014-09, the Company's contracts are the combined purchase orders and the terms and conditions contained within such framework agreements. 
Payment terms for the Company's sales are generally less than sixty days. Substantially all of the Company's receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward. The Company applies the practical expedient within ASU 2014-09 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component of the transaction price. 
The Company has a broad line of products that it sells to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), electronic manufacturing services ("EMS") companies, which manufacture for OEMs on an outsourcing basis, and independent distributors that maintain large inventories of electronic components for resale to OEMs and EMS companies. 


item2.txt
We are focused on enhancing stockholder value and improving earnings per share. In addition to our growth plan, we also have opportunistically repurchased our stock. In 2014, our Board of Directors instituted a quarterly dividend payment program and declared the first cash dividend in the history of Vishay. The quarterly cash dividend was increased by 26% to $0.085 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. In December 2015, we amended our credit facility to increase our ability to repurchase shares of stock or pay cash dividends. The Company repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million pursuant to the stock repurchase plan that expired on June 1, 2018. No repurchases were made in 2018. In the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we issued $600 million convertible senior notes due 2025. We used the net proceeds from the issuance of these notes to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amount of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively. We recognized a loss of $17.3 million due to the early extinguishment of the repurchased convertible senior debentures. 
As a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") in December 2017, we terminated the aforementioned cash repatriation plan and replaced it with a plan to repatriate approximately $1.1 billion of unremitted foreign earnings in Israel, Germany, Austria, and France in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017. As a result of additional analysis completed in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we adjusted the amount of foreign unremitted earnings available from Israel, Germany, Austria, and France to approximately $1.2 billion and accrued additional provisional tax expense. We repatriated approximately $274.0 million and $450.0 million to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $92.1 million and $64.7 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively. Substantially all of the amounts repatriated in the second fiscal quarter were used to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness. A portion of the amounts repatriated in the third fiscal quarter were used to eliminate the remaining outstanding balance of the credit facility. The provisional tax expense recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to the enactment of the TCJA included these amounts paid in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018. 
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018 were $781.0 million, compared to $761.0 million and $677.9 million for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018 were $77.9 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, compared to $103.1 million, or $0.65 per share for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018, and $64.4 million, or $0.41 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2017. 
We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for various items that management believes are not indicative of the intrinsic operating performance of our business. We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. The reconciliations below include certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash. These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as alternatives to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. Non-GAAP measures such as adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash do not have uniform definitions. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Management believes that adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are meaningful because they provide insight with respect to our intrinsic operating results. Management believes that free cash is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends. 
Our free cash results for the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 were significantly impacted by the payment of cash taxes of $92.1 million and $64.7 million related to the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively, and the payment of the first $14.4 million installment of the U.S. transition tax in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. 
We utilize several financial metrics to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. These key financial measures and metrics include net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, and the book-to-bill ratio. We also monitor changes in inventory turnover and our or publicly available average selling prices ("ASP"). 
Gross profit margin is computed as gross profit as a percentage of net revenues. Gross profit is generally net revenues less costs of products sold, but also deducts certain other period costs, particularly losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs. Losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs have the impact of reducing gross profit margin in the period of the charge, but result in improved gross profit margins in subsequent periods by reducing costs of products sold as inventory is used. Gross profit margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues. We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin. Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income. Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gains or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues. We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment. Operating margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
An important indicator of demand in our industry is the book-to-bill ratio, which is the ratio of the amount of product ordered during a period as compared with the product that we ship during that period. A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods. Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues. 
In response to the TCJA, the Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB No. 118") to provide guidance to registrants in applying ASC Topic 740 in connection with the TCJA. SAB No. 118 provides that in the period of enactment, the income tax effects of the TCJA may be reported as a provisional amount based on a reasonable estimate (to the extent a reasonable estimate can be determined), which would be subject to adjustment during a "measurement period". The measurement period begins in the reporting period of the TCJA's enactment and ends when a registrant has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information that was needed in order to complete the accounting requirements under ASC Topic 740. SAB No. 118 also describes supplemental disclosures that should accompany the provisional amounts. 
After completing these phases of cash repatriation, there is approximately $300 million of unremitted foreign earnings that we have deemed not permanently reinvested and thus have accrued foreign withholding and other taxes. We expect to repatriate these remaining amounts at a measured pace over several years, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts. 
The deferred tax liability related to these unremitted foreign earnings is based on the available sources of cash, applicable tax rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other factors and circumstances, as of each balance sheet date. Changes in these underlying facts and circumstances result in changes in the deferred tax liability balance, which are recorded as tax benefit or expense. We recorded expense of $0.7 million and benefit of $7.0 million for the third fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018, respectively, for such remeasurements. 


item3.txt
Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018, describes our exposure to market risks. There have been no material changes to our market risks since December 31, 2017. 
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018 and Item 1 of Part II of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 8, 2018 describe certain of our legal proceedings. Except as described below, there have been no material developments to the legal proceedings previously disclosed. 


item4.txt
  31.1   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Dr. Gerald Paul, Chief Executive Officer.   


part2.txt
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018 and Item 1 of Part II of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 8, 2018 describe certain of our legal proceedings. Except as described below, there have been no material developments to the legal proceedings previously disclosed. 
On September 17, 2018, the Korea Fair Trade Commission ("KFTC") announced a fine of approximately $32 thousand against Vishay Polytech Co., Ltd. ("VPC"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, for violations of applicable antitrust laws. Concurrently, the KFTC issued a corrective order prohibiting VPC from engaging in similar activities again and referred the matter to the Korean Ministry of Justice for further review. The conduct attributable to VPC occurred prior to the acquisition of that entity from Holy Stone Enterprises Co. Ltd. ("Holy Stone") in 2014.  
The liquidity of any trading market that currently exists for our convertible senior debentures may be adversely affected by the repurchase of $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, during the second fiscal quarter of 2018, and the holders of the remaining convertible debentures may be more likely to present their convertible debentures for conversion. 
Following the repurchase of convertible debentures by us in June 2018, 20% and approximately 54% of the original principal amount of the original issuances of convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, remain outstanding. Both the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 are currently convertible at the option of the holders. As a result of the repurchase, the trading market for the remaining convertible debentures may be less liquid and more sporadic and prices may fluctuate significantly depending on the volume of trading in the debentures. This decreased liquidity may also make it more likely that the holders of the remaining debentures will present their debentures for conversion. At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, and the convertible senior notes, due 2025 in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock. 


