item1.txt
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). The ASU is the result of a convergence project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. The ASU removes inconsistencies and weaknesses in revenue requirements; provides a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues; improves comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions, and capital markets; provides more useful information to users of financial statements through expanded disclosure requirements; and simplifies the preparation of financial statements by reducing the number of requirements to which an entity must refer. The Company retrospectively adopted the ASU on January 1, 2018. The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations. See Note 2 and "Changes in Accounting Policies" below. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The ASU is the result of a project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. Upon adoption of the ASU, the Company will recognize lease assets and liabilities for its operating leases which are not currently reported on its consolidated balance sheets. The ASU is effective for the Company for interim and annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with the ability to early adopt. The Company is currently evaluating the effect of the ASU on its lease contracts. 
Except for the changes described in "Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance" above and in this section below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies described in its Note 1 to its audited consolidated financial statement included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, to all periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements. 
The Company previously recognized revenue when the sales process was completed, which generally occurred when the product was delivered and risk of loss was transferred to the customer. Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company analyzes its contractual arrangements to determine whether the promise in the contract to construct and transfer goods to the customer is a performance obligation that will be satisfied over time or at a point in time. When the Company's performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, the Company transfers control of a good or service over time and, therefore, satisfies a performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time. The Company has a limited number of contracts for custom products that meet the criteria to recognize revenue over time. The dollar amount of these custom products did not materially change during the retrospective adoption period. The Company recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment of $2,210 to January 1, 2016 retained earnings (accumulated deficit) and recorded adjustments to its consolidated balance sheets due to the impact of recognizing revenue for certain custom products over time rather than at a point in time.  
ASU 2014-09 provides several transition practical expedients. The Company has not restated completed contracts that begin and end in the same annual reporting period; used the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods; has not disclosed the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize the amount as revenue for the reporting periods presented prior to January 1, 2016; and has not retrospectively restated the contract for modifications made prior to January 1, 2016 and instead reflected the aggregate effect of all modifications when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price pursuant to the transition practical expedients available. 
ASU 2017-07 amends the income statement presentation requirements of net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. The service cost component of net periodic pension cost is recorded in the same line item or items as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by the pertinent employees during the period, and other components of net periodic pension cost are included on a separate line within other income (expense). The Company reclassified net benefit costs other than the current service component previously reported as cost of goods sold and selling, general, and administrative expenses to other expenses for each quarter in the retrospective adoption period in the table below. The Company also reclassified the $79,321 U.S. pension settlement charges recorded for the year ended December 31, 2016 to other expenses. See the impact of this change in the tables below. 
As of January 1, 2018, the Company recognizes revenue from contracts with customers in accordance with ASU 2014-09. The Company has framework agreements with many of its customers that contain the terms and conditions of future sales, but do not create enforceable rights or obligations. Per ASU 2014-09, the Company's contracts are the combined purchase orders and the terms and conditions contained within such framework agreements. 
Payment terms for the Company's sales are generally less than sixty days. Substantially all of the Company's receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward. The Company applies the practical expedient within ASU 2014-09 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component of the transaction price. 
The Company has and will continue to recognize revenue on sales to distributors when the distributor takes control of the products ("sold-to" model). The Company has agreements with distributors that allow distributors a limited credit for unsaleable products, which it terms a "scrap allowance." Consistent with industry practice, the Company also has a "stock, ship and debit" program whereby it considers requests by distributors for credits on previously purchased products that remain in distributors' inventory, to enable the distributors to offer more competitive pricing. In addition, the Company has contractual arrangements whereby it provides distributors with protection against price reductions initiated by the Company after product is sold by the Company to the distributor and prior to resale by the distributor. 


item2.txt
We are focused on enhancing stockholder value and improving earnings per share. In addition to our growth plan, we also have opportunistically repurchased our stock. In 2014, our Board of Directors instituted a quarterly dividend payment program and declared the first cash dividend in the history of Vishay. In December 2015, we amended our credit facility to increase our ability to repurchase shares of stock or pay cash dividends. On August 2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase plan, authorizing us to repurchase, in the aggregate, up to $150 million of our outstanding common stock. The stock repurchase plan will expire on June 1, 2018. The stock repurchase plan does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and it may be terminated or suspended at any time at the Company's direction in accordance with the plan. The Company repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million since the inception of this plan. No repurchases were made in the first fiscal quarter of 2018. 
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. See further discussion in "Financial Metrics" and "Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources" below. In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we retrospectively adopted two new accounting standards, which impacted previously reported net revenues, gross profit margin, and segment operating income. The amounts previously reported for these metrics have been recast. See additional information in Note 1 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. We experienced a continued high level of demand in virtually all end-markets in the first fiscal quarter of 2018. Net revenues increased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year quarter. The strong order levels of 2017 continued in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 and resulted in continued strong metrics and an increase in nearly all key financial metrics compared to the prior quarter and prior year quarter. 
We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for various items that management believes are not indicative of the intrinsic operating performance of our business. We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. The reconciliations below include certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash. These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as alternatives to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. Non-GAAP measures such as adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash do not have uniform definitions. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Management believes that adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are meaningful because they provide insight with respect to our intrinsic operating results. Management believes that free cash is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends. 
Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues. We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin. Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income. Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gains or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues. We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment. Operating margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
An important indicator of demand in our industry is the book-to-bill ratio, which is the ratio of the amount of product ordered during a period as compared with the product that we ship during that period. A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods. Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues. 
Revenues increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and first fiscal quarter of 2017. The continued strong demand further increased the backlog while the book-to-bill ratio remains high. Distributors continue to drive the high order rate. Many of our product lines are operating at or near capacity, but the high order rates have increased product delivery leadtimes and even caused some shortages of supply. We continue to raise critical capacities ambitiously while remaining careful in adding operational fixed costs. Sequentially, average selling prices were virtually stable, reflective of the strong business environment. 
Gross profit margin increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and the first fiscal quarter of 2017. The increases are primarily volume-driven with decreasing average selling prices burdening each period. 
The book-to-bill ratio in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 remained strong at 1.22 versus 1.28 in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017. The book-to-bill ratios in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 for distributors and original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") were 1.28 and 1.16, respectively, versus ratios of 1.40 and 1.13, respectively, during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017. 
The deferred tax liability related to these unremitted foreign earnings is based on the available sources of cash, applicable tax rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other factors and circumstances, as of each balance sheet date. Changes in these underlying facts and circumstances result in changes in the deferred tax liability balance, which are recorded as tax benefit or expense. During the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we recorded additional tax expense of $1.3 million due to the remeasurement of this deferred tax liability, primarily due to foreign currency effects. 
We historically derived significant cash tax savings from our convertible debentures. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the interest deduction for the convertible debentures is computed based on the comparable yield of a hypothetical fixed rate debt instrument with similar terms and conditions but no conversion feature. Accordingly, annual interest deductions are calculated at 8.0%, 8.375%, and 7.5% of the adjusted issue price. The adjusted issue price, and consequently the interest deduction for income tax purposes, grows over the term of the debt due to the difference between the interest deduction using a comparable yield applied to the adjusted issue price, and the coupon rate of 2.5% on the principal amount. Interest expense recognized in accordance with GAAP is calculated at the comparable yield multiplied by the carrying amount of the liability component of convertible debentures, which is substantially lower than the adjusted issue price for tax purposes. The difference between the tax and GAAP interest computations resulted in substantially greater interest deductions for tax purposes than GAAP interest expense. The TCJA limits deduction for net interest expense, which makes the convertible debentures less attractive financial instruments. While the convertible debentures due 2040 and 2042 are currently convertible at the option of the holders, none of the convertible debentures are currently callable by us. We are evaluating financing alternatives, which might include the modification or replacement of such instruments, as a result of the TCJA. 
As part of our growth strategy, we seek to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which we have substantial marketing and technical expertise. This includes exploring opportunities to acquire targets to gain market share, penetrate different geographic markets, enhance new product development, round out our existing product lines, or grow our high margin niche market businesses. Acquisitions of passive components businesses would likely be made to strengthen and broaden our position as a specialty product supplier; acquisitions of discrete semiconductor businesses would be made to increase market share and to generate synergies. To limit our financial exposure, we have implemented a policy not to pursue acquisitions if our post-acquisition debt would exceed 2.5x our pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA"). For these purposes, we calculate pro forma EBITDA as the adjusted EBITDA of Vishay and the target for Vishay's four preceding fiscal quarters, with a pro forma adjustment for savings which management estimates would have been achieved had the target been acquired by Vishay at the beginning of the four fiscal quarter period. 
We define variable costs as expenses that vary with respect to quantity produced. Fixed costs do not vary with respect to quantity produced over the relevant time period. Contributive margin is calculated as net revenue less variable costs. It may be expressed in dollars or as a percentage of net revenue. Management uses this measure to determine the amount of profit to be expected for any change in revenues. While these measures are typical cost accounting measures, none of these measures are recognized in accordance with GAAP. The classification of expenses as either variable or fixed is judgmental and other companies might classify such expenses differently. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 
Our long-term strategy includes growth through the integration of acquired businesses, and GAAP requires plant closure and employee termination costs that we incur in connection with our acquisition activities to be recorded as expenses in our consolidated statement of operations, as such expenses are incurred. We have not incurred any material plant closure or employee termination costs related to any of the businesses acquired since 2011, but we expect to have some level of future restructuring expenses due to acquisitions. 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. We occasionally use forward exchange contracts to economically hedge a portion of these exposures. 


item3.txt
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018, describe certain of our legal proceedings. Except as described below, there have been no material developments to the legal proceedings previously disclosed. 


item4.txt
  10.2   Third Amendment to Terms and Conditions of Johan Vandoorn Employment Agreement, dated February 15, 2018. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our current report on Form 8-K, filed on February 16, 2018.   
  10.4   Employment Agreement, dated February 15, 2018, between Vishay Singapore Pte. Ltd. (an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.), Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., and Clarence Tse. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our current report on Form 8-K, filed on February 16, 2018.   


part2.txt
  10.1   Employment Agreement, dated February 15, 2018, between Vishay Europe GmbH (an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.), Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., and Lori Lipcaman. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our current report on Form 8-K, filed on February 16, 2018.   
  10.3   Employment Agreement, dated February 15, 2018, between Vishay Americas, Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.), Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., and David Valletta. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our current report on Form 8-K, filed on February 16, 2018.   
  10.4   Employment Agreement, dated February 15, 2018, between Vishay Singapore Pte. Ltd. (an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.), Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., and Clarence Tse. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our current report on Form 8-K, filed on February 16, 2018.   


