item1.txt
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31. The four fiscal quarters in 2018 end on March 31, 2018, June 30, 2018, September 29, 2018, and December 31, 2018, respectively. The four fiscal quarters in 2017 ended on April 1, 2017, July 1, 2017, September 30, 2017, and December 31, 2017, respectively. 
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). The ASU is the result of a convergence project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. The ASU removes inconsistencies and weaknesses in revenue requirements; provides a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues; improves comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions, and capital markets; provides more useful information to users of financial statements through expanded disclosure requirements; and simplifies the preparation of financial statements by reducing the number of requirements to which an entity must refer. The Company retrospectively adopted the ASU on January 1, 2018. The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations. See Note 2 and "Changes in Accounting Policies" below. 
Except for the changes described in "Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance" above and in this section below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies described in its Note 1 to its audited consolidated financial statement included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, to all periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements. 
ASU 2014-09 introduces the concept of service-type warranties, which represent separate performance obligations. Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company considers its warranty obligations as service-type warranties and allocates a portion of the estimated consideration to be received from the related contract to the service-type warranty performance obligation and recognizes the related revenue over the warranty period. The impact of accounting for service-type warranties as separate performance obligations was not significant in the retrospective adoption period and is included in the tables below. See further discussion of the warranty obligations in Note 2. 
The Company previously recognized revenue when the sales process was completed, which generally occurred when the product was delivered and risk of loss was transferred to the customer. Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company analyzes its contractual arrangements to determine whether the promise in the contract to construct and transfer goods to the customer is a performance obligation that will be satisfied over time or at a point in time. When the Company's performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, the Company transfers control of a good or service over time and, therefore, satisfies a performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time. The Company has a limited number of contracts for custom products that meet the criteria to recognize revenue over time. The dollar amount of these custom products did not materially change during the retrospective adoption period. The Company recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment of $2,210 to January 1, 2016 retained earnings (accumulated deficit) and recorded adjustments to its consolidated balance sheets due to the impact of recognizing revenue for certain custom products over time rather than at a point in time. 
ASU 2014-09 provides several transition practical expedients. The Company has not restated completed contracts that begin and end in the same annual reporting period; used the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods; has not disclosed the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize the amount as revenue for the reporting periods presented prior to January 1, 2016; and has not retrospectively restated the contract for modifications made prior to January 1, 2016 and instead reflected the aggregate effect of all modifications when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price pursuant to the transition practical expedients available. 
ASU 2017-07 amends the income statement presentation requirements of net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. The service cost component of net periodic pension cost is recorded in the same line item or items as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by the pertinent employees during the period, and other components of net periodic pension cost are included on a separate line within other income (expense). The Company reclassified net benefit costs other than the current service component previously reported as cost of goods sold and selling, general, and administrative expenses to other expenses for each quarter in the retrospective adoption period in the table below. The Company also reclassified the $79,321 U.S. pension settlement charges recorded for the year ended December 31, 2016 to other expenses. See the impact of this change in the tables below. 
As of January 1, 2018, the Company recognizes revenue from contracts with customers in accordance with ASU 2014-09. The Company has framework agreements with many of its customers that contain the terms and conditions of future sales, but do not create enforceable rights or obligations. Per ASU 2014-09, the Company's contracts are the combined purchase orders and the terms and conditions contained within such framework agreements. 
The Company has and will continue to recognize revenue on sales to distributors when the distributor takes control of the products ("sold-to" model). The Company has agreements with distributors that allow distributors a limited credit for unsaleable products, which it terms a "scrap allowance." Consistent with industry practice, the Company also has a "stock, ship and debit" program whereby it considers requests by distributors for credits on previously purchased products that remain in distributors' inventory, to enable the distributors to offer more competitive pricing. In addition, the Company has contractual arrangements whereby it provides distributors with protection against price reductions initiated by the Company after product is sold by the Company to the distributor and prior to resale by the distributor. 


item2.txt
As a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") in December 2017, we terminated the aforementioned cash repatriation plan and replaced it with a plan to repatriate approximately $1.1 billion of unremitted foreign earnings in Israel, Germany, Austria, and France in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017. As a result of additional analysis completed in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we adjusted the amount of foreign unremitted earnings available from Israel, Germany, Austria, and France to approximately $1.2 billion and accrued additional provisional tax expense. During the second fiscal quarter, we repatriated approximately $274.0 million to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $92.1 million. Substantially all of these amounts were used to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness. The provisional tax expense recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to the enactment of the TCJA included these amounts paid in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. 
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018 were $761.0 million, compared to $716.8 million and $643.2 million for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively. The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018 were $103.1 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, compared to $62.4 million, or $0.39 per share for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018, and $56.2 million, or $0.36 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2017. 
Although the term "free cash" is not defined in GAAP, each of the elements used to calculate free cash for the year-to-date period is presented as a line item on the face of our consolidated condensed statement of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP and the quarterly amounts are derived from the year-to-date GAAP statements as of the beginning and end of the respective quarter. 
Our results for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2018, March 31, 2018, and July 1, 2017 and six fiscal months ending June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 represent the effects of a strong business environment and order activity, our cost reduction programs, and our organic growth initiatives. We experienced a relatively sharp upturn in demand beginning in the first quarter of 2017 that has continued through first six fiscal months of 2018 and further improved results. Our percentage of euro-based sales approximates our percentage of euro-based expenses so the foreign currency impact on revenues was substantially offset by the impact on expenses. Our pre-tax results were consistent with expectations based on our business model. 
Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues. We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin. Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income. Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gains or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues. We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment. Operating margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
An important indicator of demand in our industry is the book-to-bill ratio, which is the ratio of the amount of product ordered during a period as compared with the product that we ship during that period. A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods. Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues. 
In response to the TCJA, the Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB No. 118") to provide guidance to registrants in applying ASC Topic 740 in connection with the TCJA. SAB No. 118 provides that in the period of enactment, the income tax effects of the TCJA may be reported as a provisional amount based on a reasonable estimate (to the extent a reasonable estimate can be determined), which would be subject to adjustment during a "measurement period". The measurement period begins in the reporting period of the TCJA's enactment and ends when a registrant has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information that was needed in order to complete the accounting requirements under ASC Topic 740. SAB No. 118 also describes supplemental disclosures that should accompany the provisional amounts. 
The deferred tax liability related to these unremitted foreign earnings is based on the available sources of cash, applicable tax rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other factors and circumstances, as of each balance sheet date. Changes in these underlying facts and circumstances result in changes in the deferred tax liability balance, which are recorded as tax benefit or expense. We recorded benefits of $9.0 million and $7.7 million for the second fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, for such remeasurements.
We historically derived significant cash tax savings from our convertible debentures. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the interest deduction for the convertible debentures is computed based on the comparable yield of a hypothetical fixed rate debt instrument with similar terms and conditions but no conversion feature. Accordingly, annual interest deductions are calculated at 8.0%, 8.375%, and 7.5% of the adjusted issue price. The adjusted issue price, and consequently the interest deduction for income tax purposes, grows over the term of the debt due to the difference between the interest deduction using a comparable yield applied to the adjusted issue price, and the coupon rate of 2.25% on the principal amount. Interest expense recognized in accordance with GAAP is calculated at the comparable yield multiplied by the carrying amount of the liability component of convertible debentures, which is substantially lower than the adjusted issue price for tax purposes. The difference between the tax and GAAP interest computations resulted in substantially greater interest deductions for tax purposes than GAAP interest expense. The TCJA limits deduction for net interest expense, which makes the convertible debentures less attractive financial instruments. We repurchased $220.0 million and $69.1 million of convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. Our repurchase of a portion of the outstanding convertible debentures reduced our expected full year 2018 tax rate, which in turn reduced the income tax expense recorded in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. While the remaining convertible debentures due 2040 and 2042 are currently convertible at the option of the holders, none of the convertible debentures are currently callable by us.  
As part of our growth strategy, we seek to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which we have substantial marketing and technical expertise. This includes exploring opportunities to acquire targets to gain market share, penetrate different geographic markets, enhance new product development, round out our existing product lines, or grow our high margin niche market businesses. Acquisitions of passive components businesses would likely be made to strengthen and broaden our position as a specialty product supplier; acquisitions of discrete semiconductor businesses would be made to increase market share and to generate synergies. To limit our financial exposure, we have implemented a policy not to pursue acquisitions if our post-acquisition debt would exceed 2.5x our pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA"). For these purposes, we calculate pro forma EBITDA as the adjusted EBITDA of Vishay and the target for Vishay's four preceding fiscal quarters, with a pro forma adjustment for savings which management estimates would have been achieved had the target been acquired by Vishay at the beginning of the four fiscal quarter period. 
We define variable costs as expenses that vary with respect to quantity produced. Fixed costs do not vary with respect to quantity produced over the relevant time period. Contributive margin is calculated as net revenue less variable costs. It may be expressed in dollars or as a percentage of net revenue. Management uses this measure to determine the amount of profit to be expected for any change in revenues. While these measures are typical cost accounting measures, none of these measures are recognized in accordance with GAAP. The classification of expenses as either variable or fixed is judgmental and other companies might classify such expenses differently. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 
Our long-term strategy includes growth through the integration of acquired businesses, and GAAP requires plant closure and employee termination costs that we incur in connection with our acquisition activities to be recorded as expenses in our consolidated statement of operations, as such expenses are incurred. We have not incurred any material plant closure or employee termination costs related to any of the businesses acquired since 2011, but we expect to have some level of future restructuring expenses due to acquisitions. 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. We occasionally use forward exchange contracts to economically hedge a portion of these exposures. 


item3.txt
The liquidity of any trading market that currently exists for our convertible senior debentures may be adversely affected by the repurchase of $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, during the second fiscal quarter of 2018, and the holders of the remaining convertible debentures may be more likely to present their convertible debentures for conversion. 
Following the repurchase of convertible debentures by us in June 2018, 20% and approximately 54% of the original principal amount of the original issuances of convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, remain outstanding. Both the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 are currently convertible at the option of the holders. As a result of the repurchase, the trading market for the remaining convertible debentures may be less liquid and more sporadic and prices may fluctuate significantly depending on the volume of trading in the debentures. This decreased liquidity may also make it more likely that the holders of the remaining debentures will present their debentures for conversion. At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, and the convertible senior notes, due 2025 in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock. 


item4.txt
    4.2     Form of Global Note, representing Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.'s 2.25% Senior Convertible Notes due 2025 (included as Exhibit A to the Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.1). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to our current report on Form 8-K, filed on June 13, 2018.   


part2.txt
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018 and Item 1 of Part II of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 8, 2018 describe certain of our legal proceedings. There have been no material developments to the legal proceedings previously disclosed. 
The liquidity of any trading market that currently exists for our convertible senior debentures may be adversely affected by the repurchase of $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, during the second fiscal quarter of 2018, and the holders of the remaining convertible debentures may be more likely to present their convertible debentures for conversion. 
Prior to three months before the respective maturity dates of our convertible senior debentures due 2040, 2041, and 2042, the holders of the debentures may only convert the debentures under specific circumstances as defined in the indentures governing the debentures. Prior to six months before the maturity date of our convertible senior notes due 2025, the holders of the notes may only convert the notes under specific circumstances as defined in the indentures governing the notes. As of June 30, 2018, our convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042 are convertible (See Note 6 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1). Regardless of current convertibility of the debentures, GAAP requires convertible debentures to be included in the calculation of diluted EPS using either the "If Converted" or the "Treasury Stock Method" depending on our intent and ability to settle the debentures upon repurchase or conversion. The application of the "If Converted" method generally results in significantly more potentially dilutive securities compared to the "Treasury Stock Method." Pursuant to the indentures governing the respective debentures and notes, we have the right to pay the conversion value or purchase price for the debentures in cash, Vishay common stock, or a combination of both. At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the debentures and notes and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock. Accordingly, the debentures and notes are included in the diluted EPS computation using the "Treasury Stock" method" rather than the "If Converted" method. If we were unable to employ the "Treasury Stock" method due to increased debt levels or changes in intentions, the number of potentially dilutive securities could increase significantly. 


