fls.txt
Forward-looking statements are based on our management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, Regulation S-X.
The January 28, 2018 consolidated balance sheet was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018, as filed with the SEC, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments except as otherwise noted, considered necessary for a fair statement of results of operations and financial position have been included.
The results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
Our customer programs primarily involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products.
As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed.
Customers may purchase either perpetual licenses or subscriptions to licenses, which differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software.
For such arrangements, we allocate revenue to the software license and PCS on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the standalone selling price for each performance obligation.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases by which we will begin recognizing lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for lease terms of more than 12 months.
The update will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
We expect the adoption of this accounting guidance to result in an increase in lease assets and a corresponding increase in lease liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
On January 29, 2018, we adopted the new revenue accounting standard using the modified retrospective method and applied it to contracts that were not completed as of that date.
Upon adoption, we recognized the cumulative effect of the new standard as an increase to opening retained earnings of $7 million, net of tax.
The impact of applying the new standard on our consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended April 29, 2018 was not significant.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.
Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices.
Revenue for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 increased 66% year over year and 10% sequentially.
We adopted the new accounting standard for revenue recognition in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective approach.
The impact of adopting the new revenue standard was not significant to our consolidated financial statements in the first quarter.
Gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was 64.5%, increasing from the prior year and the previous quarter due to strong growth in datacenter revenue and the mix within our GeForce gaming GPUs.
Income from operations for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $1.29 billion, up 134% from a year earlier and up 21% sequentially.
Net income and net income per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 were $1.24 billion and $1.98, respectively, up 145% and 151%, respectively, from a year earlier, fueled by strong revenue growth and improved gross and operating margins.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we returned to shareholders $655 million in share repurchases and $91 million in cash dividends.
For fiscal year 2019, we intend to return $1.25 billion to shareholders through ongoing quarterly cash dividends and share repurchases.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018.
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.


