Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government.
The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services.
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
$2 million of restructuring costs for employee severance were included in cost of revenues for the three and six months ended August 4, 2017 in the condensed and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.
The liability associated with lease exit costs will be substantially settled within three years of the completion of the Restructuring.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
Contract assets and liabilities are recorded net on a contract-by-contract basis and generally are classified as current, based on our contract operating cycle.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.We are a leading technology integrator providing full life-cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets.
As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity.
Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve.
On September 9, 2018, we entered into the Merger Agreement by and among SAIC, Engility Holdings, Inc. ("Engility"), and Raptors Merger Sub, Inc., pursuant to which we will acquire Engility (the “Merger”).
Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government.
A budget agreement passed in February would extend and increase those spending levels for GFY 2019.
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.” Item 1A.