fls.txt



item1.txt
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government.
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
$1 million and $3 million of restructuring costs for employee severance were included in cost of revenues in the condensed and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2017, respectively.
The liability associated with lease exit costs will be substantially settled within three years of the completion of the Restructuring.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
Contract assets and liabilities are recorded net on a contract-by-contract basis and generally are classified as current, based on our contract operating cycle.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
The Company recognized a $25 million provision for inventory within cost of revenues during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018 related to firm purchase commitments on a firm-fixed price program.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
This ASU is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Under this method, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of adoption as an adjustment to its opening balance of retained earnings on February 3, 2018.
In determining the cumulative impact of the adoption the Company applied the provisions of ASC 606 only to contracts that had not yet been completed at the date of adoption.
Under the new standard, the Company continues to recognize revenue over time as services are rendered to fulfill its contractual obligations; however, the Company generally accounts for customer option period exercises (renewals) and service contract modifications prospectively, instead of as a cumulative adjustment to revenue under a single unit of accounting.
Also, under the new standard, award and incentive-based fees generally are recognized during the discrete periods of performance to which they relate as opposed to on a cumulative basis over the contract period.
The net impact to opening retained earnings from these changes as a result of the adoption was $3 million.


item2.txt
As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity.
Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve.
Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government.
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
Refer to "Results of Operations" below, and "Restructuring" in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
•return of capital in excess of operating needs.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure described in more detail in “Non-GAAP Measures” below.
Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements.
Through each program life cycle, managers review performance and update estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available.
Revenues increased $32 million or 2.8% for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to newly awarded contracts ($54 million), which includes information technology (IT) integration contracts supporting state and local customers, and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($24 million).


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.
We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.


