fls.txt



item1.txt
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government.
The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
Investments in marketable securities consist of equity securities which are recorded at fair value using observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets (Level 1).
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months.
The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease.
The criteria for distinction between a finance lease and an operating lease are substantially similar to existing lease guidance for capital leases and operating leases.
Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $187 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent.
Other Accounting Standards Updates effective after May 3, 2019 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements.
Aggregate changes in these estimates increased operating income by $8 million ($0.11 per diluted share) for the three months ended May 3, 2019, and decreased operating income by $5 million ($0.09 per diluted share) for the three months ended May 4, 2018.
Changes in these estimates increased net income by $6 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019.
In addition, revenues were $9 million higher for the three months ended May 3, 2019, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.
During the three months ended May 3, 2019 and May 4, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $13 million and $9 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively.
Pre-contract costs of $1 million were expensed during the three months ended May 3, 2019.


item2.txt
We are a leading technology integrator providing full life cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets.
As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity.
Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve.
In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government.
These bills are funded at increased levels for defense and non-defense spending based on a bi-partisan agreement reached in February 2018 to lift caps set by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA), providing additional business opportunities for the Company.
However, beyond GFY 2019, there remains uncertainty on whether, and by how much, discretionary spending will be increased above the budget caps put in place in the BCA.
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
Through each contract's life cycle, program managers review performance and update contract performance estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available.
Revenues.
Revenues increased $440 million or 37.4% for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues increased $361 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.


