fls.txt



item1.txt
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S. federal government.
The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
Derivative instruments are recorded on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets at fair value.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
Investments in marketable securities consist of equity securities which are recorded at fair value using observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets (Level 1).
As of November 1, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the fair value of our investments total $26 million and $4 million, respectively, and was included in other assets on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months.
The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease.
The criteria for distinction between a finance lease and an operating lease are substantially similar to existing lease guidance for capital leases and operating leases.
Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $184 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent.


item2.txt
We are a leading technology integrator providing full life cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets.
We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 50 years.
As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity.
Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve.
Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government.
In addition to the ongoing threat of shutdowns, future Congresses could choose to reduce overall spending levels or fail to increase the federal debt limit.
We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex, mission-critical contracts.
Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements.
Through each contract's life cycle, program managers review performance and update contract performance estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available.
Revenues increased $453 million or 38.5% for the three months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Revenues increased $1,372 million or 39.6% for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues contracted 1.4%, primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts with the U.S. Marine Corps ($69 million) and the effect of acquisition related dis-synergies.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.


