Item 1.
Financial Statements
CCUR Holdings, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
CCUR Holdings, Inc.
Consolidated STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
ccur holdings, inc.
Consolidated STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
ccur holdings, inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 1.Overview of Business and Basis of Presentation
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
Prior year information has been adjusted to conform to the current year presentation.
Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations.
See Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
In fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other things, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
Through Recur Holdings LLC, we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) have been omitted pursuant to applicable rules and regulations.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
The year-end consolidated balance sheet data as of June 30, 2018 was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and may not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
Certain prior period income amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
The results of operations for the three months and six months ended December 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018.
Smaller Reporting Company
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities
We determine the appropriate classification of investments in debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such determinations at each balance sheet date.
Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity.
In some cases, our debt investments may provide for a portion of the interest payable to be payment-in-kind (“PIK”) interest.
To the extent interest is PIK, it is payable through the increase of the principal amount of the loan by the amount of the interest due on the then-outstanding principal amount of the loan.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Commercial and Mortgage Loans and Loan Losses
We have potential exposure to transaction losses as a result of uncollectibility of commercial mortgage and other loans.
We base our reserve estimates on prior chargeback history and currently available information that is indicative of a transaction loss.
We reflect additions to the reserve in current operating results, while we make charges to the reserve when we incur losses.
We reflect recoveries in the reserve for transaction losses as collected.
We have the intent and ability to hold our commercial loans to maturity and have not recorded provisions for loan losses as of December 31, 2018.
We have the intent and ability to hold these loans to maturity or payoff and as such, have classified these loans as held-for-investment.
These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs.
As of December 31, 2018, we have not recorded any charge-offs, and believe that an allowance for loan losses is not required.
Advances Receivable
Merchant Cash Advances, net
In December 2018, we began purchasing participation interests in Merchant Cash Advances (“MCAs”) from a third party whose principal activity is originating MCAs to small businesses.
MCAs are contracts formed through a future receivables or receipts purchase and sale agreement, which stipulates the purchase price, or the amount advanced, and the specified amount, or the advance amount plus the factored receivable balance the Company will be repaid, on the face of the contract.
Generally, a specified amount will be withdrawn from the merchant’s bank account via daily or weekly ACH in order to pay down the merchant’s advance.
These are not consumer loan contracts, nor are they installment loan contracts to businesses for business use only.
In addition, there is no monthly minimum payment, nor is there a specific repayment schedule.
Other Advances Receivable
During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we provided a $2,000 cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business.
The fee is earned over the six-month advance period and is reported as part of merchant cash advance income within the statement of operations.
Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary.
As of December 31, 2018, our advance receivable was not impaired.
Allowance for MCA credit losses
The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of funding through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group.
Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection in full of purchased receivables is unlikely.
Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.
The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process, and ultimate losses may vary from the current estimates.
We regularly update our reserve estimates as new facts become known and events occur that may affect the settlement or recovery of losses.
For the six months ended December 31, 2018, we have experienced no losses on advances; however, new facts and circumstances may adversely affect our MCA portfolio resulting in increased delinquencies and losses and could require additional provisions for credit losses, which could impact future periods.
Based on industry peer group historical performance, we recorded a $495 loss reserve during the current period.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Revenue Recognition
We generate revenue primarily from interest earned on commercial mortgage and other loans that yield interest, and also from fees earned on MCAs.
Loan origination fees are deferred and recognized over the expected term of the loan.
The revenue generated from MCAs is primarily factor income.
The factor income represents the amount of the purchased receivables in excess of the funded contract amount advanced to the merchant in accordance with the merchant agreement net of amounts related to participations.
Factor income on merchant advance receivables is earned and recognized ratably as receivables are collected, at factor rates stipulated in the client funding agreement from the date of purchase through the date the receivables are collected or ceases accruing factor revenue when the receivable is identified as uncollectible.
Basic and Diluted (Loss) Earnings per Share
Basic (loss) earnings per share is computed by dividing (loss) income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year.
Diluted (loss) earnings per share is computed by dividing (loss) income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.
Due to the loss from continuing operations for both periods presented, weighted average common share equivalents of 10,937 and 315,771 for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and weighted average common share equivalents of 13,420 and 322,570 for the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the calculation as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Fair Value Measurements
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
 ·Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 ·Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable; and
 ·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The carrying amounts of certain financial instruments, including cash equivalents and MCAs, approximate their fair values due to their short-term nature.
Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Guidance
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted
Content Delivery Business
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of the Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital).
The sale included our Content Delivery business assets and related liabilities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany, as well as the sale of all equity in our Japanese subsidiary.
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
Operating expenses recorded in discontinued operations include costs incurred directly in support of the Content Delivery business.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Investments
Fixed maturity debt securities are classified as “available for sale,” and as such, adjustments to fair value are recorded within other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheet as unrealized gains and losses.
Upon our adoption of ASU 2016-01, effective July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded a $1,529 unrealized loss on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments.
During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded a $1,986 unrealized loss on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments, and we recorded a $201 realized gain on the sale of debt and equity securities, as reported within our consolidated statement of operations.
The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale as of December 31, 2018 are shown by contractual maturity in the table below.
Actual maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 5.Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Receivable
We also had a $1,400 deposit held by an escrow agent as of June 30, 2018 for a mortgage loan that was consummated subsequent to our June 30, 2018 fiscal year end.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Components of Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes
We are continuing to evaluate the impact of TCJA in light of the guidance that the U.S. Treasury and various state taxing authorities are releasing.
At this time, we do not believe there will be any material changes to the amounts previously provided for the impact of the TCJA.
We concluded our analysis during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As a result of the TCJA, we are reassessing our intentions related to our indefinite reinvestment assertion as part of our provisional estimates.
Should we decide to no longer indefinitely reinvest such foreign earnings outside the U.S., we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period such determination is made.
We currently have an immaterial amount of cash available for repatriation of less than $35.
After the TCJA, there should be no federal income taxes that would be due upon repatriation.
Any other impact, such as withholding tax, states taxes, or foreign exchange rate changes, should be immaterial based on the amount of cash held overseas.
Net Operating Losses
As of June 30, 2018, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $56,113 for income tax purposes, of which none expire in fiscal year 2019, and the remainder expire at various dates through fiscal year 2037.
We recently completed an evaluation of the potential effect of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”) on our ability to utilize these net operating losses.
The study concluded that we have not had an ownership change for the period from July 22, 1993 to June 30, 2018; therefore, the NOLs will not be subject to limitation under Section 382.
If we experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, our ability to use these NOLs will be substantially limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset.
We have taken steps to protect the value of our NOLs with a “Tax Asset Preservation Plan” which is described more fully in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, we had state NOLs of $33,240.
The state NOLs expire according to the rules of each state and expiration will occur between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2037.
Deferred Tax Assets and Related Valuation Allowances
Research and Development Tax Credits
During the year ended June 30, 2017, we applied for both a U.S. federal and state of Georgia research and development tax credit in the amounts of $719 and $675, respectively, for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016.
For U.S. federal tax purposes, the credit cannot be utilized immediately but will carryforward for a period of 20 years.
As we do not expect to be able to realize the benefit of the U.S. federal tax credit carryforward before its expiration, we maintain a full valuation allowance on this item.
For the state of Georgia tax credit, we have recorded the credit within both other current assets and other long-term assets with an offset in both accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively.
As future payroll tax withholdings of our Georgia-based employees become due, we are able to offset the withholding amount dollar-for-dollar against the credit.
As a result, as the credit is claimed, we will (1) reduce other current assets and offset the payroll tax liability and (2) reduce accrued expenses and recognize a reduction of operating expenses.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Unrecognized Tax Benefits
We have evaluated our unrecognized tax benefits and determined that there has not been a material change in the amount of such benefits for the three months and six months ended December 31, 2018.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Defined Benefit Plans
 10.Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses
 11.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
Severance Arrangements
Pursuant to the terms of the employment agreements with the chief financial officer and legal counsel, employment may be terminated by either the respective employee or us at any time.
In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause, or in certain circumstances terminates constructively or expires, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for a period from six to 12 months, depending on the employee, and bonus severance.
Additionally, if terminated, our chief financial officer will be entitled to COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan for the 12-month period following termination.
At December 31, 2018, the maximum contingent liability under these agreements was $491.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Release of Content Delivery Business Sale Proceeds from Escrow
As a condition of the sale of our Content Delivery business to Vecima on December 31, 2017, $1,450 of the purchase price proceeds were placed in escrow as security for our indemnification obligations to Vecima under the CDN APA, through December 31, 2018, with any portion used to reimburse Vecima for indemnification payments deducted from the escrow balance.
On January 2, 2019, the full $1,450 was released from escrow and transferred to our bank account.
 Item 1.Legal Proceedings
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business.
 Item 1A.Risk Factors
There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those included in “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, except as noted below.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, which acquisition currently is under a non-binding letter of intent.
If we do not complete this acquisition, we will have expended significant expenses and management resources without our shareholders realizing the potential benefits.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark as discussed under a non-binding letter of intent under the terms set forth in the letter of intent, or at all, because the letter of intent is not binding on us or on LuxeMark.
Our acquisition of such interest is subject to us negotiating and executing with LuxeMark a mutually acceptable definitive and binding purchase agreement with respect to the business, which we expect will contain a number of conditions to closing the acquisition, including (i) our completion of satisfactory due diligence with respect to LuxeMark’s business, and (ii) satisfaction of customary closing conditions and, dependent on the results of due diligence and negotiation of the definitive documents between the parties, may require material modifications to the terms set forth in the letter of intent.
There can be no assurance that LuxeMark will be willing to proceed with a transaction, that we will be able to negotiate and execute a satisfactory definitive purchase agreement with LuxeMark, that our due diligence will be satisfactory, or that the conditions to closing will be satisfied.
If we are unable to complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, we will have expended significant expenses and management resources related to due diligence, legal and accounting work undertaken for the failed acquisition without our shareholders realizing any of the potential benefits of such acquisition.
We participate in the MCA industry, which presents a number of unique risks.
In December 2018, we acquired certain advance assets from an MCA originator and funder that is a leader in the MCA sector.
An MCA funder provides small businesses with cash advances in return for the purchase of an amount of the small business’s future receipts.
This type of transaction is not characterized or structured as a loan.
Small businesses typically seek these advances for working capital purposes to finance their purchase of inventory, equipment, or to otherwise address immediate business needs.
This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions.
Because real estate assets are relatively illiquid, we may not be able to diversify, liquidate, or monetize our real estate portfolio in response to changes in economic and other relevant conditions, which may result in losses.
The illiquidity of our real estate portfolio may also result in us seeking financing in order to expand our operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan.
Real estate assets are relatively illiquid.
A variety of factors could make it difficult for us to modify our real estate portfolio in response to changing economic or other relevant conditions, thus creating risk of loss associated with those changed conditions.
In addition, we may seek to restrict the percentage of our assets that are contained in illiquid real estate assets by seeking financing to continue expansion of our real estate operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan and invest in other value producing assets, including acquisition of additional businesses and assets.
In addition, reserving a certain percentage of our liquid assets may benefit our financial performance by increasing our ability to modify our operations to respond to adverse economic or other relevant conditions.
Any financing that we obtain creates risks normally associated with financing, including the risk that our cash flow is insufficient to make timely payments of interest or principal.
We may engage in real estate transactions or other strategic opportunities that involve property types or structures with which we have less familiarity, thereby increasing our risk of loss.
We may decide to participate in real estate transactions and other strategic opportunities in which we have limited or no prior experience.
When engaging in such transactions, we may not be successful in our diligence and underwriting efforts.
We may also be unsuccessful in preserving value if conditions deteriorate and we may expose ourselves to unknown substantial risks.
Furthermore, engaging in unfamiliar transactions may require additional management time and attention relative to transactions with which we are more familiar.
All of these factors increase our risk of loss.
We may continue to grow our business through acquisitions, which entails substantial risk.
We may continue growing our operating business through one or more acquisitions.
Such acquisitions entail substantial risk.
During our due diligence of such acquisitions, we may not uncover all relevant liabilities and we may have limited, if any, recourse against the sellers.
We may also incur significant transaction and integration costs in connection with such acquisitions.
Further, we may not successfully integrate the acquired assets or businesses into our existing business and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.
In addition, post-closing expansion of any acquired assets and businesses may subject us to additional costs or make us vulnerable to regulations or rules that were not assessed prior to acquisition.
We may be limited in the types of acquisitions that we can pursue in order to preserve use of our NOLs.
We currently have NOLs valued at $56.1 million as of June 30, 2018.
We may be able to achieve greater realization of the value of our NOLs with certain business or asset acquisitions.
There is no guarantee that we will be able to find or consummate an acquisition that allows for utilization of our NOLs and we may engage in acquisitions that do not facilitate use of the NOLs.
In any acquisition we may be limited by our available cash and cash equivalents or ability to obtain financing in order to preserve use of our NOLs.
Use of our NOLs can be impaired by certain shift in the ownership of our common stock and thus we are limited in our ability to use stock in an acquisition for NOL preservation purposes.
Alternatively, while we have not identified or committed to any such transactions, we may identify acquisitions that we believe will provide value sufficient to forego preservation of the NOLs to participate in the acquisition opportunity.
