Part II - Other Information
 Item 1.Legal Proceedings
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors
Additional risk factors are discussed in Part I, Item 1A.
of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 filed on September 20, 2017, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended December 31, 2017 filed on February 14, 2018, and in “Risk Factors Relating to the Proposal to Approve the Asset Sale” of our Definitive Proxy Statement filed on November 6, 2017.
Except as discussed below, there have been no material changes to our risk factors as previously disclosed.
Trading on the OTCQB Venture Marketplace may be volatile and sporadic, which could depress the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for our stockholders to resell their shares.
Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB Venture Marketplace operated by the OTC Markets Group.
Trading in stock quoted on the OTCQB is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects.
This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance.
Moreover, the OTCQB is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTCQB is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a stock exchange like the Nasdaq Stock Market or New York Stock Exchange.
Accordingly, our stockholders may have difficulty reselling any of their shares.
We may be unable to relist our common stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market or any other exchange.
In order to have our common stock resume trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market or another exchange, we will need to reapply to Nasdaq or such other exchange to have our stock listed.
The application process can be lengthy, and there is no assurance that Nasdaq or such other exchange will relist our common stock.
If we are unable to relist our common stock, or even if our common stock is relisted, no assurance can be provided that an active trading market will develop or, if one develops, will continue.
Changes in market conditions may impact any stock repurchases, and stock repurchases could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock.
On March 5, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to 1 million shares of the Company’s common stock.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion of management through open market or privately negotiated transactions or any combination of the same.
To the extent the Company engages in stock repurchases, such activity is subject to market conditions, such as the trading prices for our stock, as well as the terms of any stock purchase plans intended to comply with Rule 10b5-1 or Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
The Board of Directors, in its discretion, may resolve to discontinue stock repurchases at any time.
Any repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and add volatility.
There can be no assurance that the repurchases will be made at the best possible price.
The existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock.
There can be no assurance that stock repurchases will create value for stockholders because the market price of the stock may decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock.
Our stock purchase program is intended to deliver stockholder value over the long-term, but short-term stock price fluctuations can reduce the program’s effectiveness.
Recently enacted tax legislation may impact our ability to fully utilize any net operating loss carryforwards generated after 2017 to fully offset our taxable income in future periods.
On December 22, 2017, tax legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA”) was enacted.
Beginning in 2018, the TCJA generally will, among other things, permit us to offset only 80% (rather than 100%) of our taxable income with any net operating losses we generate after 2017.
Net operating losses subject to these limitations may be carried forward by us for use in later years, subject to these limitations.
These tax law changes could have the effect of causing us to incur income tax liability sooner than we otherwise would have incurred such liability or, in certain cases, could cause us to incur income tax liability that we might otherwise not have incurred, in the absence of these tax law changes.
The TCJA also includes provisions that, beginning in 2018, reduce the maximum federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and eliminate the alternative minimum tax, which would lessen any adverse impact of the limitations described in the preceding sentences.
We may be subject to lawsuits relating to Section 16 of the Exchange Act based on certain transactions in our common stock and derivative securities referencing our common stock.
In the past, our largest stockholder, JDS1, LLC has disgorged “short-swing” profits to the Company, which is a term that describes certain profits of Section 16 reporting persons realized from transactions in common stock or derivative securities during a specified time period that are subject to disgorgement under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
The Company continuously reviews transactions by JDS1, LLC (and other Section 16 reporting persons to the extent such transactions occur) in our common stock and derivative securities referencing our common stock for additional transactions that may be subject to Section 16 and require disgorgement.
We have received letters from lawyers purporting to represent stockholders of the Company regarding additional transactions of JDS1, LLC.
Our Board of Directors has established a special committee consisting of directors David Nicol and Dilip Singh to review whether any additional amounts are subject to disgorgement from JDS1, LLC under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and to oversee recovery of any such amounts.
While the Company has taken the steps described above to address transactions of Section 16 reporting persons, there can be no assurance that related litigation will not arise, including litigation initiated by the stockholders that have contacted the Company regarding these transactions.
Any related litigation that arises may require the Company to expend significant financial and managerial resources.
Equity Price Risk
We are exposed to market risk primarily through changes in fair value of available-for-sale fixed maturity and equity securities in which the Company invests.
We follow an investment strategy approved by our Board of Directors’ Investment Committee which sets certain restrictions on the amount of securities that we may acquire and our overall investment strategy.
Market prices for fixed maturity and equity securities are subject to fluctuation, as a result, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the reported market value.
Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments and general market conditions.
Because our fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale, the hypothetical decline would not affect current earnings except to the extent that the decline reflects an other-than-temporary impairment.
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
c. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and affiliated purchasers.
 (1)On January 2, 2018, the Company purchased 41,566 shares from certain employees whose shares vested due to the change in control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
The repurchase of shares was approved by the Board of Directors on a one-time basis to facilitate employees’ payment of payroll withholding taxes due upon vesting of the shares.
Shares were repurchased from employees only to the extent required to fund minimum required withholding taxes based on the closing price nearest to the December 31, 2017 vest date.
Section 16 officers were prohibited from participating in this employee share repurchase.
From April 1 through May 3, 2018, we repurchased an additional 354,336 shares of our common stock, bringing the total shares repurchased this fiscal year to 708,426 at average of $5.12 (of which 666,860 shares were repurchased under the stock repurchase plan described in footnote 2 above).
 Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities
None.
 Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
 Item 5.Other Information
None.
 Item 6.Exhibits
 †Indicates management contract or compensatory plan.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
     Warren Sutherland
     Chief Financial Officer
     (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
Exhibit Index
 †Indicates management contract or compensatory plan.
