The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein. Except for the historical financial information, many of the matters discussed in this Item 2 may be considered “forward-looking” statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” elsewhere herein and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2017. 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

Certain statements made or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. When used or incorporated by reference in this report, the words “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Statements regarding future events and developments, our future performance, market share, new market growth, payment of dividends, ability to utilize our net deferred tax assets and availability of earnings and profits with respect to dividend income, as well as our expectations, beliefs, plans, estimates or projections relating to the future, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of these laws. Examples of our forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, our potential liability for any indemnification claim related to the sale of the Real-Time business or Content Delivery business and the timing of release of amounts subject to escrow in connection with either transaction; the ability of the Board of Directors and Investment Committee to identify a suitable acquisition target and the Company’s ability to consummate a transaction with such target; the impact of any strategic initiatives we may undertake; the impact of the current reestablishment of and potential for future release of our tax valuation allowances on future income tax provisions and income taxes paid; expected level of capital additions; our expected cash position; the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuation in currency exchange rates; our sufficiency of cash; and the impact of litigation and the payment of dividends. These statements are based on beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are based on currently available information. All forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially from those projected. The risks and uncertainties which could affect our financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation: uncertainty caused by the Company’s suspension of trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market and transfer of stock listing to the OTCQB Market; the process of evaluation of strategic alternatives; the Company’s ability to compete with experienced investors in the acquisition of one or more businesses, our ability to utilize net operating losses to offset cash taxes in the event of an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Service; changes in and related uncertainties caused by changes in applicable tax laws, the current challenging macroeconomic environment; continuing unevenness of the global economic recovery; and the availability of debt or equity financing to support any liquidity needs; global terrorism; earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters. 

Other important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made in this report are discussed in Part I, Item 1A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 filed on September 20, 2017 and the section titled “Risk Factors Relating to the Proposal to Approve the Asset Sale” in our Definitive Proxy Statement filed on November 6, 2017. 

Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of such statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of future events, new information or otherwise. 

