Part II - Other Information
 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business.
 Item 1A.
Risk Factors
There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those included in “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, except as noted below.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark that we have under a non-binding letter of intent.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark that we have under a non-binding letter of intent under the terms set forth in the letter of intent, or at all, because the letter of intent is not binding on us or on LuxeMark.
Our acquisition of such interest is subject to us negotiating and executing with LuxeMark a mutually acceptable definitive and binding purchase agreement with respect to the business, which we expect will contain a number of conditions to closing the acquisition, including (i) our completion of satisfactory due diligence with respect to LuxeMark’s business, and (ii) satisfaction of customary closing conditions and, dependent on the results of due diligence and negotiation of the definitive documents between the parties, may require material modifications to the terms set forth in the letter of intent.
There can be no assurance that LuxeMark will be willing to proceed with a transaction, that we will be able to negotiate and execute a satisfactory definitive purchase agreement with LuxeMark, that our due diligence will be satisfactory, or that the conditions to closing will be satisfied.
If we do not complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, we will have expended substantial significant expenses and management resources without our shareholders realizing the potential benefits.
If we are unable to complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, we will have expended significant expenses and management resources related to due diligence, legal and accounting work undertaken for the failed acquisitions without our shareholders realizing any of the potential benefits of such acquisition.
 Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
 Item 6.Exhibits
 4.2   Form of Series B Participating Preferred Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A (File No.
001-37706)).
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
