Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein.
Except for the historical financial information, many of the matters discussed in this Item 2 may be considered “forward-looking statements” that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs.
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” elsewhere herein and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Overview 

On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2018 (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).
Unless otherwise noted, discussion of our business and results of operations in this report refers to our continuing operations.
The Investment Committee, a special sub-committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board of Directors” or the “Board”), was established in December 2017 upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders.
Such alternatives include, but are not limited to, evaluating opportunities to acquire all or a controlling interest in one or more operating businesses or assets intended to provide attractive returns for our stockholders and that are intended to result in appreciation in value, a more liquid trading market for our stock, and enhance our ability to utilize our existing U.S. federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards.
Other than the restrictions set forth in the relevant non-competition and non-solicitation agreement executed by the Company in connection with the disposition of our prior operations, there are no restrictions on the transactions that we can pursue, including with respect to industry sector and geographic location.
During our fiscal year 2019, the Board dissolved the Investment Committee and established an Asset Management Committee as a standing committee of the Board.
The Asset Management Committee, among other things, continues the work of the former Investment Committee by providing oversight of the Company’s acquisition process and also manages the Company’s ongoing operations and assets (including continued expansion and development of its real estate and merchant cash advance (“MCA”) operations) and those of any subsequently acquired businesses.
In February 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”).
LMCS operates through connecting a network of MCA originators with syndicate participants who provide those originators with additional capital by purchasing participation interests in funded MCAs.
In addition, LMCS provides funding to MCA originators by both directly funding MCAs and by providing loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves.
The Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark.
LMCS will do business as “LuxeMark Capital” with daily operations led by the three LuxeMark principals.
We are actively pursuing business opportunities, including the acquisition of new businesses or assets, as well as developing and managing our current business and assets.
We continually identify and evaluate a wide range of opportunities in an effort to reinvest the proceeds of our calendar year 2017 business dispositions and maximize use of other assets such as our NOLs.
We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all of our stockholders.
As part of this effort, our senior management spends a significant portion of its time evaluating potential acquisition and strategic opportunities.
We have received referrals with respect to and have performed due diligence assessments on multiple target companies and strategic opportunities in a variety of industries.
We work with several financial advisors and consultants and have been able to filter leads and referrals through diverse channels enabling us to review a wide range of opportunities in a variety of industries.
We have focused our acquisition and strategic efforts on the MCA and real estate industries and various other industries with well-priced businesses and assets that we believe have significant growth potential.
Our acquisition process is focused on identifying fairly- to under-valued businesses that have growth potential.
Due to current market conditions, we have faced significant competition from strategic and, in particular, financial buyers which in many instances have raised seller valuation expectations above what we consider to be attractive levels for us and our stockholders.
We continue to believe that fairly- and under-valued opportunities exist and are attainable and do not intend to pursue what we consider to be over-valued businesses and assets that we believe may not deliver the levels of returns that we target.
Recent Events 

New Company Bonus Plan 

On January 1, 2019, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board, the Board adopted the 2019 CCUR Bonus Plan, also referred to herein as the “NAV Program,” pursuant to which certain employees of the Company have the opportunity, among other things, to earn cash and equity incentive awards through a program based on growth in the Company’s net asset value (“NAV”).
The NAV Program replaces the Company’s previous “Annual Incentive Bonus” program implemented for senior employees.
The NAV Program is subject to, and where applicable, governed by, the terms of the Company’s stock plan.
Appointment of Mr. Wayne Barr, Jr. as President and Chief Executive Officer 

Effective March 1, 2019, the Board of Directors appointed Wayne Barr, Jr., who served as interim President and Chief Executive Officer from February 2018 to February 2019, as President and Chief Executive Officer.
Acquisition of Operating Assets of LuxeMark through 80%-owned subsidiary, LMCS 

On February 13, 2019, we closed on the Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which we acquired the LuxeMark operating assets through our newly formed LMCS subsidiary.
This transaction was negotiated pursuant to a previously announced letter of intent between the Company and LuxeMark.
Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark.
LMCS will do business as “LuxeMark Capital” with daily operations led by the three LuxeMark principals.
A three-member board comprised of two CCUR Holdings executives and one LuxeMark principal will oversee LMCS.
As consideration under the Purchase Agreement, at closing LMCS paid LuxeMark $1.2 million and issued warrants that will allow the three current LuxeMark principals to purchase up to an aggregate of 444,361 shares of the Company’s common stock, with vesting dependent upon LMCS achieving certain performance levels.
The warrants expire in 10 years and are exercisable at $6.50 per share.
The consideration under the Purchase Agreement also includes four cash earnout payments of up to $1 million each year based on the performance of LMCS for the annual calendar periods of 2019 through 2022, in the aggregate not to exceed $4 million.
In addition, the Company has made available to LMCS a total of $10.35 million in debt financing for the purpose of allowing LMCS to fund MCA transactions through syndication funding of MCAs and loans to MCA originators.
Approximately $5 million that the Company previously funded through an MCA originator, facilitated by LuxeMark, has been assigned to LMCS and credited as an advance against the $10.35 million in debt financing made available to LMCS.
Entry into Management Agreement with CIDM LLC 

In February 2019, the Company entered into a management agreement (the “Management Agreement”), as amended, with CIDM LLC (“CIDM” or the “Asset Manager”) under which CIDM will provide consulting services and advice to the Board of Directors and the Company’s management regarding asset allocation and acquisition strategy.
CIDM will also exclusively manage the Company’s portfolio of publicly traded investments in order to better position the Company to increase returns as a whole.
CIDM is an affiliate of the Company’s largest stockholder, JDS1, LLC.
Under the terms of the Management Agreement, in addition to a cash payment to compensate CIDM for expenses incurred in connection with providing these services, the Company will pay for these services through the issuance of cash-settled stock appreciation rights in respect of Company common stock resulting in no cash payment to CIDM unless and until there are certain qualifying changes of control of the Company (which does not include any change of control related to the stock ownership of CIDM or its affiliates).
CIDM and its affiliates will be subject to standard trading restrictions and standstill provisions while the Management Agreement is active.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 


Allowance for MCA Credit Losses 

The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our consolidated statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by a peer group.
We will be using this performance measure until the Company is able to develop its own historical performance measures.
Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely.
Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.
The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process, and ultimate losses may vary from the current estimates.
We regularly update our reserve estimates as new facts become known and events occur that may affect the settlement or recovery of losses.
For the nine months ended March 31, 2019, we did not experience any losses on advances; however, new facts and circumstances may adversely affect our MCA portfolio, resulting in increased delinquencies and losses, and could require additional provisions for credit losses, which could impact future periods.
Based on industry peer group historical performance, we recorded $0.8 million of loss reserve during the current year period.
Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 

MCA Income.
In December 2018, we began participating in the MCA industry by indirectly advancing funds to merchants through a third-party originator that is a leader in the MCA sector.
We generated $0.6 million of income from MCAs during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
Furthermore, we earned $0.2 million of syndication fee income from sourcing syndication capital for the MCA industry during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019, as a result of our purchase of the LuxeMark operating assets.
Sales and Marketing Expenses.
During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we began incurring sales and marketing expenses attributable to new business development resources that are focused on augmenting our current businesses and identifying potential new businesses.
We incurred $0.1 million of these business development costs during the three months ended March 31, 2019, which are reported as part of our corporate operating expenses.
Additionally, the former LuxeMark principals who now lead the LMCS daily operations following the closing of our LuxeMark acquisition are predominantly focused on generating incremental syndication fees and other MCA income for our MCA operations segment.
As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.1 million of sales and marketing expenses during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
We anticipate our sales and marketing expenses will increase during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019, when we will incur a full quarter of sales and marketing expenses from our MCA operations segment.
·a $0.4 million decrease in non-acquisition-related legal and accounting fees.
During the prior year period we incurred legal fees attributable to general corporate, governance and other matters following the sale of the Content Delivery business in December 2017 that did not recur in the current year period.
Additionally, during the current year period, we reversed charges for approximately $0.1 million of non-acquisition-related legal fees that were predominantly invoiced in the prior year period that we disputed and ultimately settled for a lower amount during the current year period; and 

 ·a $0.3 million decrease in salaries and professional services expenses incurred in the prior year three-month period primarily attributable to the post-close reporting and transition activities for the sale of the Content Delivery business in December 2017.
Partially offsetting these decreases in expenses, we incurred $0.3 million of incremental legal and accounting fees in the current year period in connection with the consummation of the LuxeMark transaction.
Provision for Credit Losses.
We established a provision for credit losses specifically for the MCAs that we began participating in during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our consolidated statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group.
Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely.
Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.
·increasing interest rates on cash equivalent and repo balances; 

 ·investment in higher yielding debt securities in the current year period; and 

 ·accretion of discounts on purchased debt securities.
Dividend Income.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Net Realized Gain on Investments.
During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we sold investments in certain debt and equity securities for which we recognized $0.5 million realized gains for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Unrealized Loss on Equity Securities, Net.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities.
Upon our adoption of ASU No.
2016-01 on July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net unrealized gain (loss) on investments.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded $0.2 million unrealized losses on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments.
Income Tax Benefit.
Our income tax benefit during the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to a benefit in the U.S. for a provision-to-return adjustment.
We reached a conclusion on the provision-to-return adjustment during the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, when we finalized our 2018 tax returns.
There was no net federal income tax impact due to our NOLs, which were offset by a full valuation allowance.
However, for certain states where we did not have NOLs and for alternative minimum tax purposes, the returns showed lower taxes than were originally calculated in the provision.
Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes.
We sold the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 includes certain expenses related to the sale of the Content Delivery business for that period, as further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Results of Operations for the Nine Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to the Nine Months Ended March 31, 2018 

Merchant Cash Advance Income.
In December 2018, we began participating in the MCA industry by indirectly advancing funds to merchants through a third-party originator that is a leader in the MCA sector.
We generated $0.8 million of income from MCAs during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
Furthermore, we earned $0.2 million of syndication fee income from sourcing syndication capital for the MCA industry during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019, as a result of our purchase of the LuxeMark operating assets.
Sales and Marketing Expenses.
During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we began incurring sales and marketing expenses attributable to new business development resources that are focused on augmenting our current businesses and identifying potential new businesses.
We incurred $0.1 million of these business development costs during the nine months ended March 31, 2019, which are reported as part of our corporate operating expenses.
Additionally, the former LuxeMark principals who now lead the LMCS daily operations following closing of our LuxeMark acquisition are predominantly focused on generating incremental syndication fees and other MCA income for our MCA operations segment.
As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.1 million of sales and marketing expenses during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
We anticipate our sales and marketing expenses will increase during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019, when we will incur a full quarter of sales and marketing expenses from our MCA operations segment.
·a $1.9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense, primarily resulting from the change of control triggered by the sale of the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017; 

 ·a $0.8 million decrease in bonuses due primarily to the non-recurring bonuses paid in the nine months ended March 31, 2018 for the completion of the sale of the Content Delivery business, and secondarily for annual incentive plan bonuses for operating results for the first half of our fiscal year 2018; 

 ·a $0.6 million decrease in severance primarily related to our former Chief Executive Officer that was terminated in conjunction with the sale of the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017; 

 ·a $0.4 million decrease in personnel costs, as we have reduced the number of employees from continuing operations subsequent to the sale of the Content Delivery business; 

 ·a $0.4 million reduction in legal and accounting fees resulting from a reduction of operating complexity and a change in service providers, 


 ·a $0.1 million decrease in insurance expenses resulting from a reduction of operating complexity, and 

 ·a $0.2 million decrease in Board fees.
In the nine months ended March 31, 2018, we incurred fees attributable to the resignation of three of our independent directors that did not recur in the nine months ended March 31, 2019.
Additionally, in the nine months ended March 31, 2018, we reduced certain recurring Board fees for our remaining Board members.
Partially offsetting these decreases in expenses, we incurred $0.3 million of incremental legal and accounting fees in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 in connection with the consummation of the LuxeMark transaction.
Provision for Credit Losses.
We established a provision for credit losses specifically for the MCAs that we began participating in during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our consolidated statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group.
Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely.
Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.
·the increase in cash resulting from the sale of the Content Delivery business in December 2017; 

 ·increasing interest rates on cash equivalent and repo balances; 

 ·investment in higher yielding debt securities in the nine months ended March 31, 2019; and 

 ·accretion of discounts on purchased debt securities.
Dividend Income.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018 we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the nine months ended March 31, 2019.
Net Realized Gain on Investments.
In the first and third quarters of our fiscal year 2019, we sold investments in certain debt and equity securities for which we recognized $0.7 million of realized gains for the nine months ended March 31, 2019.
Unrealized Loss on Equity Securities, Net.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities.
Upon our adoption of ASU No.
2016-01 on July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments.
During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded $2.2 million of unrealized losses on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments.
Income Tax Benefit.
Our income tax benefit during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to a benefit in the U.S. for a provision-to-return adjustment.
We reached a conclusion on the provision-to-return adjustment during the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, when we finalized our 2018 tax returns.
There was no net federal income tax impact due to our NOLs, which were offset by a full valuation allowance.
However, for certain states where we did not have NOLs and for alternative minimum tax purposes, the returns showed lower taxes than were originally calculated in the provision.
Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes.
We sold the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, which is further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Liquidity and Capital Resources 


 ·our future access to capital; 

 ·our exploration and evaluation of strategic alternatives and development of new operating assets; 

 ·our ability to collect on our commercial loans and advances receivable; 

 ·the number of countries in which we operate, which may require maintenance of minimum cash levels in each country and, in certain cases, may restrict the repatriation of cash, by requiring us to maintain levels of capital; 

 ·our ongoing operating expenses; and 

 ·potential liquidation of the Company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation.
Uses and Sources of Cash 

Cash Flows from Operating Activities 

We generated $0.5 million and used $7.6 million of cash for operating activities during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Operating cash generated during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to cash generated by our operations and investments exceeding our operating costs.
Operating cash flows during the nine months ending March 31, 2018 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous period’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business in our fiscal year 2017, inventory purchases and accrued compensation, coupled with losses from continuing operations.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities 

During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, we funded $7.5 million of commercial loans, most of which were mortgage loans through our real estate operating subsidiary.
Our mortgage loans typically require interest only payments until maturity or payoff.
We received $4.4 million from principal payments during the nine months ended March 31, 2019, as three loans were paid off during the period.
In December 2018, we entered into an arrangement with a leading MCA originator to participate in funding its MCA originations.
We made initial advances of $8.0 million to the originator, who in turn advanced these funds to merchants as part of a syndication.
As merchant receivables have been collected, we have used the collected funds to fund additional MCAs.
Through March 31, 2019, we have funded $13.0 million in MCAs (including the original $8.0 million) and collected $4.5 million of merchant receivables as repayment for these advances.
Additionally, we provided $4.5 million of cash advances to an aviation business to fund deposits required for aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee.
We collected $2.0 million of these aviation advances during the nine months ended March 31, 2019.
Our remaining investing activities consisted of $13.0 million in purchases and $9.5 million in maturities or sales of debt and equity securities for the purpose of funding our operating expenses as we continue to evolve our real estate and MCA operating businesses and actively search for additional operating businesses to acquire, as well as collection of the $1.45 million of proceeds from the sale of the Content Delivery business held in escrow until January 2, 2019.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities 


On January 2, 2018, we purchased 41,566 shares from certain non-Section 16 employees whose shares vested due to the change in control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
The $239 thousand repurchase of shares at $5.76 per share was approved by the Board of Directors on a one-time basis to facilitate employees’ payment of payroll withholding taxes due upon vesting of the shares.
Shares were repurchased from employees only to the extent required to fund minimum required withholding taxes based on the closing price nearest to the December 31, 2017 vest date.
In the nine months ended March 31, 2018, we paid two quarterly cash dividends, each for $0.12 per share.
We also paid less than $0.1 million of dividends that had been held as dividends payable from previous declarations to restricted stockholders for whom restrictions lapsed during each period.
Additionally, in January 2018, as a result of the acceleration of vesting of substantially all of our previously unvested restricted stock triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business, we paid $0.3 million of previously accrued dividends in January 2018.
On October 27, 2017, we announced the Board of Directors’ decision to suspend future dividends after the payment of the December 2017 quarterly dividend while the Board of Directors and its then Investment Committee (now replaced by the Asset Management Committee) considered potential acquisition targets and alternative uses of our remaining assets.
Liquidity 

We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $49.6 million at March 31, 2019, compared to working capital of $55.3 million at June 30, 2018.
At March 31, 2019, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures.
As of March 31, 2019, less than 0.2% of our cash was in foreign accounts and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months.
Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this report.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2019.
Recent Accounting Guidance 

See Note 2, “Recent Accounting Guidance,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting standards including the respective expected dates of adoption and the expected effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

Certain statements made or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
When used or incorporated by reference in this report, the words “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “intends”, and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Statements regarding future events and developments, our future performance, payment of dividends, ability to utilize our net deferred tax assets and availability of earnings and profits with respect to dividend income, as well as our expectations, beliefs, plans, estimates or projections relating to the future and current assessments of business opportunities, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of these laws.
Examples of our forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to: the ability of the Board of Directors and the Asset Management Committee to identify suitable business opportunities and acquisition targets and the Company’s ability to consummate a transaction with such acquisition targets; our ability to successfully develop our real estate and MCA operations; expectations to fund additional MCAs; the impact of any strategic initiatives we may undertake; the impact of the current reestablishment of and potential for future release of our tax valuation allowances on future income tax provisions and income taxes paid; expected level of capital additions; our expected cash position; the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuation in currency exchange rates; our sufficiency of cash; and the impact of litigation and the payment of any declared dividends.
These statements are based on beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are based on currently available information.
All forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially from those projected.
The risks and uncertainties which could affect our financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation: uncertainty caused by delisting of the Company’s stock on The Nasdaq Stock Market and transfer of our stock listing to the OTCQB Venture Market; the process of evaluating strategic alternatives; the Company’s ability to compete with experienced investors in the acquisition of one or more businesses; the Company’s ability to consummate proposed acquisition transactions; the Company’s ability to utilize its NOLs to offset cash taxes, in general, and in the event of an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Code; changes in and related uncertainties caused by changes in applicable tax laws, the current macroeconomic environment generally and with respect to acquisitions and the financing thereof; continuing unevenness of the global economic recovery; the availability of debt or equity financing to support any liquidity needs; global terrorism; and earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters.
Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of such statements.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of future events, new information or otherwise, except as may be required by federal securities laws.
Other important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made in this report are discussed in “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 and in “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” in this report or elsewhere herein.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 




 Item 6.Exhibits 



 3.12   Amended and Restated Bylaws of CCUR Holdings, Inc., as adopted on January 2, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
3.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 5, 2018 (File No.
001-37706 )).
3.13   Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of CCUR Holdings, Inc., dated as of January 2, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 5, 2018 (File No.
001-37706)).
3.14   Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of CCUR Holdings, Inc., dated as of November 8, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 13, 2018 (File No.
001-37706)).
4.1   Form of Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
4.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003 (File No.
000-13150)).
4.2   Form of Series B Participating Preferred Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
4.5 to the Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed on March 1, 2016 (File No.
001-37706)).
10.1†   2019 CCUR Bonus Plan, effective as of January 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 7, 2019 and Form 8-KA on January 9, 2019 (File No.
001-37706).
10.2†   Second Amendment to Employment Agreement between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and Warren Sutherland, dated as of January 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 7, 2019 and Form 8-KA on January 9, 2019 (File No.
001-37706)).
10.3   Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 13, 2019, by and among LuxeMark Capital, LLC, LM Capital Solutions, LLC, Avraham Zeines, Oskar Kowalski and Kamil Blaszczak (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 14, 2019 (File No.
001-37706)).
10.4   Management Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2019, between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and CIDM LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 14, 2019 (File No.
001-37706)).
10.5†   Employment Agreement by and between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and Wayne Barr, Jr., executed on February 14, 2019 and effective as of March 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 14, 2019 (File No.
001-37706)).
10.6   First Amendment to Management Agreement by and between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and CIDM LLC dated as of May 8, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2019).
†Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
