 Item 1.Financial Statements
CCUR Holdings, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
CCUR Holdings, Inc.
Consolidated STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
ccur holdings, inc.
Consolidated STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
ccur holdings, inc.
Consolidated STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
ccur holdings, inc.
Consolidated STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
ccur holdings, inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 1.Overview of Business and Basis of Presentation
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
Prior year information has been adjusted to conform to the current year presentation.
Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations.
See Note 3 for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we created Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur Holdings”), a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company.
Through Recur Holdings we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations.
On February 13, 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”).
LMCS operates through its syndication network to facilitate merchant cash advance (“MCA”) funding by connecting a network of MCA originators (sometimes referred to herein as “funders”) with syndicate participants who provide those originators with additional capital by purchasing participation interests in funded MCAs.
In addition, LMCS provides reporting and other administrative services to its syndication network.
The Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark.
LMCS will do business as “LuxeMark Capital” with daily operations led by the three LuxeMark principals.
Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) have been omitted pursuant to applicable rules and regulations.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
The year-end consolidated balance sheet data as of June 30, 2018 was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and may not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
Certain prior period income amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
The results of operations for the three months and nine months ended March 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Smaller Reporting Company
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Business Combinations
The Company accounts for acquisitions of entities that include inputs and processes and have the ability to create outputs as business combinations.
The Company allocates the purchase price of the acquisition to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and identifiable intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values.
The excess of the purchase price over those fair values is recorded as goodwill.
Acquisition-related expenses and restructuring costs are expensed as incurred.
During the measurement period, the Company records adjustments to provisional amounts recorded for assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
After the measurement period, which could be up to one year after the transaction date, subsequent adjustments are recorded to the Company’s consolidated statements of operations.
The Company recognizes the fair value of contingent consideration as of the acquisition date as part of the consideration transferred in exchange for an acquired business.
The fair value of the contingent consideration is recorded as a liability and remeasured each accounting period, with any resulting change being recorded as an operating income or loss item within the statement of operations.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the net assets of businesses acquired.
On an annual basis, the Company makes a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill.
If the Company determines that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it will perform a quantitative analysis; otherwise, no further evaluation is necessary.
For the quantitative impairment test, the Company compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill.
The Company determines the fair value of the reporting unit based on a weighting of income and market approaches.
If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired and no further testing is performed.
If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then the Company will recognize a loss equal to the excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
Impairments, if any, are charged directly to earnings.
Goodwill is attributable to our MCA business unit.
We recorded our goodwill during the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019 and will complete our annual impairment test within one year of recording the goodwill, unless facts and circumstances require an earlier impairment test.
No impairment charges have been incurred to date.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities
We determine the appropriate classification of investments in debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such determinations at each balance sheet date.
Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity.
In some cases, our debt investments may provide for a portion of the interest payable to be payment-in-kind (“PIK”) interest.
To the extent interest is PIK, it is payable through the increase of the principal amount of the loan by the amount of the interest due on the then-outstanding principal amount of the loan.
Commercial and Mortgage Loans and Loan Losses
We have potential exposure to transaction losses as a result of uncollectibility of commercial mortgage and other loans.
We base our reserve estimates on prior chargeback history and currently available information that is indicative of a transaction loss.
We reflect additions to the reserve in current operating results, while we make charges to the reserve when we incur losses.
We reflect recoveries in the reserve for transaction losses as collected.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We have the intent and ability to hold these loans to maturity or payoff and as such, have classified these loans as held-for-investment.
These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs.
As of March 31, 2019, we have not recorded any charge-offs, and believe that an allowance for loan losses is not required.
Advances Receivable
In December 2018, we began purchasing participation interests in MCAs from a third party whose principal activity is originating MCAs to small businesses.
MCAs are contracts formed through a future receivables purchase and sale agreement, which stipulates the purchase price, or the amount advanced, and the specified amount, or the advance amount plus the factored receivable balance that will be repaid, on the face of the contract.
Generally, a specified amount will be withdrawn from the merchant’s bank account via daily or weekly ACH transactions in order to pay down the merchant’s advance.
These are not consumer loan contracts, nor are they installment loan contracts to businesses for business use only.
In addition, there is no monthly minimum payment, nor is there a specific repayment schedule.
Allowance for MCA credit losses
The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of funding through a provision for losses charged to our consolidated statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group.
Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection in full of purchased receivables is unlikely.
Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.
Revenue Recognition
We generate revenue primarily from interest earned on commercial mortgage and other loans that yield interest, and also from fees earned from our MCA activities.
Loan origination fees are deferred and recognized over the expected term of the loan.
The revenue generated from MCAs is primarily factor income.
The factor income represents the amount of the purchased receivables in excess of the funded contract amount advanced to the merchant in accordance with the merchant agreement, net of amounts related to participations.
Factor income on merchant advance receivables is earned and recognized ratably as receivables are collected, at factor rates stipulated in the client funding agreement from the date of purchase through the date the receivables are collected, or ceases accruing factor revenue when the receivable is identified as uncollectible.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Basic and Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share
Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during each year.
Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares, representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued, are included in the computation.
Weighted-average common share equivalents of 11,195 and 9,614 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and weighted-average common share equivalents of 19,398 and 216,791 for the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the calculation, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Fair Value Measurements
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
Our investment portfolio consists of money market funds, repurchase agreements (“repos”), domestic and international commercial paper, equity securities and corporate debt.
All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased are considered to be cash equivalents.
All cash equivalents are carried at cost less any unamortized premium or discount, which approximates fair value.
All investments with original maturities of more than three months are classified as available-for-sale, trading or held-to-maturity investments.
Our marketable securities, other than warrants and equity securities, are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss.
Interest on securities is recorded in interest income.
Dividends paid by securities are recorded in dividend income.
Any realized gains or losses are reported in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
Equity securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses resulting from adjustments to fair value reported within our consolidated statements of operations.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of March 31, 2019, we used Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our preferred stock investments.
The Company has elected the measurement alternative and will record the investment at cost, adjusted for observable price changes for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer.
Observable price changes and impairment indicators will be continually assessed each reporting period.
As of February 13, 2019, we used Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants related to the purchase of LuxeMark (see Note 12 - Acquisitions).
The Company used a Monte Carlo simulation technique to value the performance-based contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants.
This technique is a probabilistic model which relies on repeated random sampling to obtain numerical results.
The concluded values represent the means of those results.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following table shows the valuation methodology and unobservable inputs for Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Guidance
Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted
Content Delivery Business
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of the Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital).
The sale included the Content Delivery business assets and related liabilities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany, as well as the sale of all equity in our Japanese subsidiary.
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
Operating expenses recorded in discontinued operations include costs incurred directly in support of the Content Delivery business.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Investments
Fixed maturity debt securities are classified as “available for sale,” and as such, adjustments to fair value are recorded within other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheet as unrealized gains and losses.
Upon our adoption of ASU 2016-01, effective July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded a $181 unrealized loss on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments, and we recorded a $525 realized gain on the sale of debt and equity securities, as reported within our consolidated statement of operations.
During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded a $2,167 unrealized loss on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments, and we recorded a $726 realized gain on the sale of debt and equity securities, as reported within our consolidated statement of operations.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale as of March 31, 2019 are shown by contractual maturity in the table below.
Actual maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
 5.Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Receivable
As of March 31, 2019, one of our mortgage loans with $1,400 of outstanding principal was subject to default rate interest.
In April 2019, the borrower in default cured its default by paying all current and default rate interest due.
During the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we originated a commercial line of credit (the “credit facility”) to support the working capital needs of a business (the “borrower”) with eligible borrowings of up to $3,000, based upon the borrower’s eligible accounts receivable.
All outstanding credit facility balances are due upon collection of the borrower’s accounts receivable and the credit facility expires on October 29, 2020.
The credit facility yields prime plus 5% on the outstanding balance of the credit facility, and a 1.2% fee is charged on the unused portion of the credit facility.
As of March 31, 2019, this credit facility had been repaid in full and is no longer available for use.
During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we originated a commercial loan of $2,000 to an MCA originator.
The commercial loan matures on February 28, 2021.
Interest is charged at a rate of 17% per annum on the outstanding balance of the commercial loan.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In December 2018, we entered into an arrangement with an MCA originator to participate in its MCA activity.
We made an initial advance of $5,000 to the originator, which in turn advanced these funds to merchants as part of a syndication.
In February 2019, we advanced an additional $3,000 to the originator.
As receipts have been paid to us by the merchants, we have used the collected funds to fund additional MCAs with this originator.
During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, we provided $4,750 of cash advances to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business.
These prepaid fees are netted against the principal balance, earned over the six-month advance period and are reported as part of MCA income within the statement of operations.
Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary.
As of March 31, 2019, $2,000 of these advances had been repaid.
The remaining $2,750 was not due yet for repayment as of March 31, 2019 and management believes this remaining amount is fully collectible.
Components of Benefit for Income Taxes
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the TCJA in light of the guidance that the U.S. Treasury and various state taxing authorities are releasing.
At this time, we do not believe there will be any material changes to the amounts previously provided for the impact of the TCJA.
As a result of the TCJA, we are reassessing our intentions related to our indefinite reinvestment assertion as part of our provisional estimates.
Should we decide to no longer indefinitely reinvest such foreign earnings outside the United States, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period such determination is made.
We currently have an immaterial amount of cash available for repatriation of less than $20.
After the TCJA, there should be no federal income taxes that would be due upon repatriation.
Any other impact, such as withholding tax, state taxes, or foreign exchange rate changes, should be immaterial based on the amount of cash held overseas.
NOLs
As of June 30, 2018, we had U.S. federal NOL carryforwards of approximately $56,568 for income tax purposes, of which none expire in our fiscal year 2019, and the remainder expire at various dates through our fiscal year 2037.
We recently completed an evaluation of the potential effect of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”) on our ability to utilize these NOLs.
The study concluded that we have not had an ownership change for the period from July 22, 1993 to June 30, 2018; therefore, the NOLs will not be subject to limitation under Section 382.
If we experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, our ability to use these NOLs will be substantially limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset.
We have taken steps to protect the value of our NOLs with a “Tax Asset Preservation Plan” which is described more fully in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, we had state NOLs of $35,379.
The state NOLs expire according to the rules of each state and expiration will occur between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2037.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Deferred Tax Assets and Related Valuation Allowances
Research and Development Tax Credits
During our fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, we applied for both a U.S. federal and state of Georgia research and development tax credit in the amounts of $719 and $675, respectively, for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2016.
For U.S. federal tax purposes, the credit cannot be utilized immediately, but will carryforward for a period of 20 years.
As we do not expect to be able to realize the benefit of the U.S. federal tax credit carryforward before its expiration, we maintain a full valuation allowance on this item.
For the state of Georgia tax credit, we have recorded the credit within both other current assets and other long-term assets, net with an offset in both accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2018.
As future payroll tax withholdings of our Georgia-based employees become due, we are able to offset the withholding amount dollar-for-dollar against the credit.
As a result, as the credit is claimed, we will (i) reduce other current assets and other long-term assets, net and offset the payroll tax liability and (ii) reduce accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities and recognize a reduction of operating expenses.
During the three months and nine months ended March 31, 2019, we received $8 and $581, respectively, of proceeds from prior utilization of our state tax credits.
As of March 31, 2019, we had $94 remaining research and development tax credits available for future use.
Unrecognized Tax Benefits
We have evaluated our unrecognized tax benefits and determined that there has not been a material change in the amount of such benefits for the three months and nine months ended March 31, 2019.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Defined Benefit Plans
 10.Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses
 11.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
On February 13, 2019, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of LuxeMark through its LMCS subsidiary.
With the acquisition of LuxeMark, our LMCS subsidiary focuses on the MCA sector of the financial industry, which is a unique segment of the market that provides financing to small- and medium-sized businesses.
LMCS operates through its syndication network to facilitate MCA funding by connecting a network of MCA originators with syndicate participants who provide those originators with additional capital by purchasing participation interests in funded MCAs.
LMCS utilizes its expertise in the MCA industry to provide reporting and other administrative services to its syndication network.
The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination.
Accordingly, the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their estimated fair value as of the date of acquisition, with the residual purchase price recorded as goodwill.
The goodwill recognized is attributable primarily to strategic opportunities related to establishing market presence in the MCA sector.
The goodwill is deductible for the income tax purposes as the acquisition was an asset acquisition.
Acquisition costs of $289 were expensed in the period incurred and are included in acquisition-related costs as general and administrative operating expenses in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations.
The fair value of the 20% membership interest in LMCS issued to the sellers of LuxeMark as part of the Purchase Agreement was determined on the basis of the transaction price attributable to the rollover equity participants.
The fair value of common stock purchase warrants issued as part of the Purchase Agreement entitles the holders to purchase from the Company an aggregate amount of 444,361 common shares once vested.
Vesting is dependent upon LMCS achieving certain performance levels.
The warrants expire in ten years and are exercisable at $6.50 per share.
The warrants were valued utilizing the Black-Scholes model.
In addition, the Company used a Monte-Carlo simulation model to determine the number of performance-based warrants that are expected to vest.
This technique is a probabilistic model which relies on repeated random sampling to obtain numerical results.
The concluded value represents the mean of those results.
Warrants are included within contingent consideration on the consolidated balance sheet due to the associated contingencies.
The Purchase Agreement requires the Company to pay to the sellers of LuxeMark four earnout payments equal to $1,000 each if fully earned through the achievement of agreed upon distributable net income (“DNI”) thresholds.
The earnout payments are calculated based on DNI for each of the calendar years ending on December 31, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022.
The Company utilized a Monte Carlo simulation technique to value performance-based contingent consideration, the same methodology used to determine the number of performance-based warrants that are expected to vest, the vesting of which is tied to the same performance-based DNI benchmarks as the contingent consideration.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The amounts of LMCS’s revenue and earnings included in the Company's consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended March 31, 2019, and the revenue and earnings of the combined entity had the acquisition date been July 1, 2017, are as follows.
Supplemental pro forma loss from continuing operations for the nine-month period ended March 31, 2019 was adjusted to exclude $289 of acquisition-related costs incurred in the nine-month period ended March 31, 2019.
Supplemental pro forma loss from continuing operations for the nine-month period ended March 31, 2018 was adjusted to include these charges.
The purchase accounting is provisional as the Company continues to evaluate the fair value of the contingent consideration transferred, intangible assets acquired as of the acquisition date, and any related current and deferred taxes.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Through Recur Holdings, which we established in September 2018, we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations.
Our chief operating decision maker (the “CODM”) uses revenue and operating income to evaluate the profitability of our operating segments; all other financial information is reviewed by the CODM on a consolidated basis.
Segment operating contribution reflects segment revenue less operating expenses that are directly attributable to the operating segment, not including corporate and unallocated expenses.
All of our principal operations and assets are located in the United States.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14.
Commitments and Contingencies
Severance Arrangements
Pursuant to the terms of the employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other senior employees, employment may be terminated by either the respective employee or us at any time.
In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause, or in certain circumstances terminates constructively or expires, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for a period from six to 12 months, depending on the employee, and bonus severance.
Additionally, if terminated, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and certain other senior executives will be entitled to COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan for the 12-month period following termination.
At March 31, 2019, the maximum contingent liability under these agreements was $1,062.
In February 2019, the Company entered into a management agreement (the “Management Agreement”), as amended, with CIDM LLC (“CIDM” or the “Asset Manager”) under which CIDM will provide consulting services and advice to the Board of Directors and the Company’s management regarding asset allocation and acquisition strategy.
CIDM will also exclusively manage the Company’s portfolio of publicly traded investments in order to better position the Company to increase returns as a whole.
CIDM is an affiliate of the Company’s largest stockholder, JDS1, LLC.
Under the terms of the Management Agreement, in addition to a cash payment to compensate CIDM for expenses incurred in connection with providing these services, the Company will pay for these services through the issuance of cash-settled stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) in respect of Company common stock resulting in no cash payment to CIDM unless and until there are certain qualifying changes of control of the Company (which does not include any change of control related to the stock ownership of CIDM or its affiliates).
CIDM and its affiliates will be subject to standard trading restrictions and standstill provisions while the Management Agreement is active.
Based upon the Company’s total assets as of March 31, 2019, the Company expects to issue 79,482 SARs to CIDM during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
The contingent liability associated with this cash-settled SAR commitment is dependent on certain change of control events and is not limited.
 Item 1.Legal Proceedings
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business.
 Item 1A.Risk Factors
There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those included in “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, except as noted below.
We participate in the MCA industry, which presents a number of unique risks.
In December 2018, we acquired certain advance assets from an MCA originator and funder that is a leader in the MCA sector.
An MCA funder provides small businesses with cash advances in return for the purchase of an amount of the small business’s future receipts.
This type of transaction is not characterized or structured as a loan.
Small businesses typically seek these advances for working capital purposes to finance their purchase of inventory or equipment, or to otherwise address immediate business needs.
This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions.
Because real estate assets are relatively illiquid, we may not be able to diversify, liquidate, or monetize our real estate portfolio in response to changes in economic and other relevant conditions, which may result in losses.
The illiquidity of our real estate portfolio may also result in us seeking financing in order to expand our operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan.
Real estate assets are relatively illiquid.
A variety of factors could make it difficult for us to modify our real estate portfolio in response to changing economic or other relevant conditions, thus creating risk of loss associated with those changed conditions.
In addition, we may seek to restrict the percentage of our assets that are contained in illiquid real estate assets by seeking financing to continue expansion of our real estate operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan and invest in other value producing assets, including acquisition of additional businesses and assets.
Further, reserving a certain percentage of our liquid assets may benefit our financial performance by increasing our ability to modify our operations to respond to adverse economic or other relevant conditions.
Any financing that we obtain creates risks normally associated with financing, including the risk that our cash flow is insufficient to make timely payments of interest or principal.
We may engage in real estate transactions or other strategic opportunities that involve property types or structures with which we have less familiarity, thereby increasing our risk of loss.
We may decide to participate in real estate transactions and other strategic opportunities in which we have limited or no prior experience.
When engaging in such transactions, we may not be successful in our diligence and underwriting efforts.
We may also be unsuccessful in preserving value if conditions deteriorate and we may expose ourselves to unknown substantial risks.
Furthermore, engaging in unfamiliar transactions may require additional management time and attention relative to transactions with which we are more familiar.
All of these factors increase our risk of loss.
We may continue to grow our business through acquisitions, which entails substantial risk.
We may continue growing our operating business through one or more acquisitions.
Such acquisitions entail substantial risk.
During our due diligence of such acquisitions, we may not uncover all relevant liabilities and we may have limited, if any, recourse against the sellers.
We may also incur significant transaction and integration costs in connection with such acquisitions.
Further, we may not successfully integrate the acquired assets or businesses into our existing business and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.
In addition, post-closing expansion of any acquired assets and businesses may subject us to additional costs or make us vulnerable to regulations or rules that were not assessed prior to acquisition.
We may be limited in the types of acquisitions that we can pursue in order to preserve use of our NOLs.
We currently have NOLs valued at $56.1 million as of June 30, 2018.
We may be able to achieve greater realization of the value of our NOLs with certain business or asset acquisitions.
There is no guarantee that we will be able to find or consummate an acquisition that allows for utilization of our NOLs and we may engage in acquisitions that do not facilitate use of the NOLs.
In any acquisition we may be limited by our available cash and cash equivalents or our ability to obtain financing in order to preserve use of our NOLs.
Use of our NOLs can be impaired by certain shifts in the ownership of our common stock and, thus, we are limited in our ability to use stock in an acquisition for NOL preservation purposes.
Alternatively, while we have not identified or committed to any such transactions, we may identify acquisitions that we believe will provide value sufficient to forgo preservation of the NOLs to participate in the acquisition opportunity.
Failure of the Asset Manager to effectively perform its obligations to us could have an adverse effect on our business and performance.
We have engaged the Asset Manager to provide asset management and other services to us pursuant to the Management Agreement.
Our ability to achieve investment and business objectives will be impacted by the performance of the Asset Manager and its ability to provide us with asset management and other services.
If, for any reason, the Asset Manager is unable to perform such services at the level we require, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected.
The fee structure with the Asset Manager could encourage the Asset Manager to invest our assets in riskier investments.
The Asset Manager has discretionary management over our portfolio of publicly traded securities, subject to our investment policy and oversight of the Board.
The Asset Manager has the ability to earn a management fee calculated based on the value of our total assets which may create incentive for the Asset Manager to invest, to the extent permitted by our investment policy, in investments with higher yield potential, that are generally riskier or more speculative, or sell an investment prematurely for a gain, in an effort to increase our short-term net income and thereby increase the fee to which it is entitled.
If our interests and those of the Asset Manager are not aligned, the execution of our business plan and results of operations could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.
The Asset Manager may not be successful in equitably allocating investment opportunities between its managed accounts.
The Management Agreement requires the Asset Manager to act in a fair and reasonable manner in allocating investment and trading opportunities among our account and any other account managed by the Asset Manager or any of its affiliates.
Specifically, the Asset Manager is charged with (i) executing orders on an equitable basis whenever it would be appropriate for our account and the Asset Manager’s other managed accounts to participate in an investment opportunity and (ii) causing our account to pay or receive a price that is no less favorable than the average of the prices paid by the Asset Manager’s other managed accounts.
However, there is no assurance that the Asset Manager will be able to successfully eliminate any conflicts of interest arising from the allocation of investment opportunities.
In addition, the Asset Manager assists with the Company’s identification of target businesses and assets for acquisition.
The Asset Manager may identify target operating businesses and assets that would be appropriate for acquisition by us and other entities managed by the Asset Manager and, after consideration of relevant factors, the Asset Manager may determine the target opportunity is more suitable for us or a different entity.
The Asset Manager manages our portfolio pursuant to broad investment guidelines and the Board of Directors and Asset Management Committee do not approve each investment and financing decision made by the Asset Manager unless required by our investment guidelines.
Pursuant to the Management Agreement, the Asset Manager has exclusive authority to manage the Company’s securities investment portfolio pursuant to the parameters set in our investment guidelines.
The Board of Directors periodically reviews our investment guidelines but does not, and is not required to, review all of our proposed investments, except in certain circumstances outlined in the investment guidelines.
While the Asset Manager is required to provide reporting of transactions undertaken on our behalf, those transactions may be costly, difficult, or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the Board of Directors.
The Asset Manager has flexibility, within the broad parameters of our investment guidelines, in determining the types and amounts of investments in which to invest on our behalf, including making investments that may result in returns that are substantially below expectations or in losses, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results.
An increase in merchant defaults may reduce our overall profitability and historical merchant default rates may not be indicative of future results.
Merchant default rates on MCA transactions may be significantly affected by economic downturns or general economic conditions beyond our control or beyond the control of the merchants who repay the amounts advanced based on the volume of their accounts receivables.
In particular, merchant default rates may increase due to factors such as the level of consumer and business confidence, the value of the U.S. dollar, changes in consumer and business spending, the number of personal and business bankruptcies and other factors.
While we do not transact directly with merchants, we have purchased participation interests in MCAs through funders that directly advance funding amounts to merchants and the returns received for those participation interests are at risk if merchants default in repayment.
Additionally, the fees obtained by our LMCS subsidiary for its servicing functions to funders and syndicate participants may be negatively impacted if merchant default rates are higher than the historical rates.
Our allowance for MCA losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors and may not be adequate to absorb MCA losses.
We face the risk that merchants will fail to repay advances made in MCA transactions.
We reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for MCA losses, the increase of which results in a reduction of our earnings as we record a provision expense for MCA losses.
We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for MCA losses.
While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, it is also dependent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment.
Actual losses are difficult to forecast and, as a result, there can be no assurance that our allowance for MCA losses will be sufficient to absorb actual losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operations.
We have a limited history in an evolving MCA industry which makes it difficult to successfully evaluate future prospects and risk.
 ·effectively manage our growth potential to achieve desired profitability but with adequate provisions to mitigate risk;
 ·maintain or increase our syndication network of syndicate participants and funders;
 ·successfully develop and deploy new MCA-related services to provide additional services to, and receive compensation from, our existing network and services that will attract a wider network and favorably compete;
 ·compete with other companies that are in or entering the MCA market and that may provide similar or expanded services;
 ·successfully mitigate against fluctuations in the economic market that impact the MCA industry;
 ·effectively determine proper expansion to any additional jurisdictions, including international jurisdictions; and
 ·successfully evaluate and continue to modify the MCA business under the relevant regulatory scheme.
We may not be able to successfully address these risks and difficulties, which could harm our business and operating results.
If we decide to expand our MCA business domestically or internationally, we may be exposed to substantially more risk that negatively impacts the results of our operations.
 ·changes to the way we operate the MCA business to accommodate varying state and international regulations, customs and economic conditions and needs;
 ·competition with service providers that have greater experience in the local markets than we do or pre-existing relationships that provide significant leverage;
 ·difficulties in providing adequate staffing and managing operations in different locales;
 ·potentially conflicting and evolving laws and regulations within different jurisdictions;
 ·risks of transacting in foreign currencies and the associated exposure;
 ·difficulties of reconciling different taxing regimes; and
 ·regional economic and political conditions.
The MCA industry may become highly regulated and regulations may continue to vary widely as the MCA industry starts to become less concentrated in certain areas and more widely accessible across the United States and international territories.
Over the last few years, as the MCA industry has been able to cover a significant gap in the availability of immediate funding for small merchant businesses, state and federal regulators have become more interested in learning the industry and exploring whether additional laws and regulations are needed to manage this evolving industry.
We may not be able to successfully forecast any new laws or regulations that may result from investigations and any additional regulatory compliance may require us to modify our business operations in a manner that negatively impacts the results of our operations.
In addition, if new laws and regulations are imposed inconsistently, in terms of their manner and timing, across the jurisdictions in which our MCA business operates, this may create greater difficulty and expense in satisfying our regulatory compliance requirements.
It may also result in conflicting requirements between different jurisdictions.
While our MCA-related contracts typically contain a choice of law provision, the parties' choice of law is not guaranteed to be recognized and respected by a court depending upon the facts and circumstances considered to be determinative by the relevant court.
If the law of a state or jurisdiction is applied that is different from our selected choice of law, we may be subject to unanticipated laws and regulations that require additional expenses and resources for compliance or incur penalties for any failure to do so that affects our operating and performance results.
