 Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein.
Except for the historical financial information, many of the matters discussed in this Item 2 may be considered “forward-looking” statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs.
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” elsewhere herein and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2017.
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
References to our Form 10-K made throughout this document refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 as filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017.
Overview
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business to Vecima.
Prior to this transaction, we sold streaming, video processing and storage products and services to media service providers to support consumer-facing video applications including live broadcast video, video-on-demand and time-shifted television services such as cloud-based digital video recording.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business to the RT Purchaser.
The Real-Time business provided real-time Linux operating system variants, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
Prior to the sale, we sold our Real-Time business products to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
Having divested both our Real-Time and Content Delivery businesses, we are now in the process of evaluating opportunities intended to maximize the value of our remaining assets, which consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments, escrow funds receivable, and approximately $56 million in U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards.
This process includes the evaluation of opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses intended to provide appreciation in value, thereby enhancing the Company’s liquidity, and potentially allowing us greater ability to utilize existing net operating loss carryforwards.
If the Investment Committee is unable to identify a suitable acquisition target that is appropriately valued, we may consider alternatives for returning capital to stockholders while we wind up our affairs.
If we wind up our affairs and liquidate under applicable law, our net operating loss carryforwards will be forfeited.
Our operating expenses during this evaluation period are limited to the cost of three employees, supported by contractors and former employees providing IT and accounting support under a transition services agreement with Vecima, audit and tax fees, legal fees, board of directors’ fees, fees to third parties engaged to find suitable investment targets, and various other expenses associated with maintaining our public filings.
Results of our Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 4 to the condensed consolidated financial statements).
Recent Events
Pursuant to the Escrow Agreement we entered into with Vecima on December 15, 2017, we received $29.02 million on the December 31, 2017 closing date, based upon the agreed upon sale price, which included $1.47 million for previously estimated working capital expected to transfer to Vecima above an agreed upon working capital target.
During the third quarter of our fiscal 2018, we and Vecima finalized the calculation of net working capital of the Content Delivery business as of December 31, 2017.
We and Vecima agreed that the surplus net working capital transferred to Vecima under the CDN APA was $812 thousand, and as a result, we returned $658 thousand to Vecima.
We reduced our gain on the sale of the Content Delivery business reported during the period ended December 31, 2017 by the amount of the final post-closing working capital adjustment, so our third quarter return of excess working capital payment did not result in an additional third quarter adjustment to our gain on the transaction.
Pursuant to our Escrow Agreement with Vecima, $1.45 million of the purchase price (not included above) will be held by SunTrust Bank as security for our indemnification obligations to Vecima under the CDN APA, which amount will be released to us on or before December 31, 2018 (less any portion used to make indemnification payments to Vecima).
The closing of the sale of the Content Delivery business to Vecima resulted in a “change in control” under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan.
As a result, we have recognized the acceleration of the vesting and the lapse of restrictions on substantially all restricted stock granted under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan and payment of any associated accrued dividends in connection with the consummation of the sale of the Content Delivery business to Vecima.
On December 31, 2017 we entered into a Separation and Consulting Agreement and General Release of Claims with Derek Elder, whereby Mr. Elder’s role as president and CEO of the Company terminated and he ceased to be a member of our Board of Directors and all committees thereof, effective on December 31, 2017.
Mr. Elder’s separation from the Company did not involve any disagreement with the Board of Directors, the Company or its management on any matter relating to the Company’s operations, policies or practices.
In addition, as described more fully in Item 1, Section 12 herein, on December 31, 2017, an independent member of our Board of Directors, Robert Pons, tendered his resignation from the Board of Directors and all committees thereof.
Mr. Pons’ resignation from the Board of Directors did not involve any disagreement with the Board of Directors, the Company or its management on any matter relating to the Company’s operations, policies or practices.
On January 2, 2018, we changed our Company name to “CCUR Holdings, Inc.” and launched a new website located at www.ccurholdings.com.
Effective March 27, 2018, we transitioned to trading on the OTCQB Venture Market under the same “CCUR” ticker symbol that we previously traded under on the Nasdaq market.
On February 8, 2018, the Board of Directors appointed Mr. David Nicol as a new board member and appointed Mr. Nicol as Audit Committee Chairman, and Audit Committee Financial Expert, replacing Wayne Barr, Jr. in those positions, and as a member of the Compensation and Nominating committees.
Mr. Nicol is a seasoned Board Director and advisor for technology-based businesses who currently serves on three other boards, two privately held and one public, the latter for which he chairs both Audit and Compensation Committees.
Mr. Nicol is an active member of the National Association of Corporate Directors and Financial Executives International.
On February 13, 2018, Mr. Wayne Barr, most recently the Chairman of the Board, was appointed to a new position as Executive Chairman, President and CEO of the Company on an interim basis to fill the vacancy left after the departure of the Company’s former CEO and President on December 31, 2017.
In connection with Mr. Barr’s new interim role, he resigned from his memberships on the Audit, Compensation and Nominating committees.
Mr. Barr will continue to serve on the Investment Committee and in his capacity as Executive Chairman, Mr. Barr will continue to serve as and execute the duties of the Chairman of the Board.
In his capacity as CEO and President, Mr. Barr shall perform, on a consultant basis, the senior executive officer and managerial job duties customary to such position and other duties as designated by the Board of Directors.
On March 26, 2018, we announced that we received notice from the Nasdaq that our stock would be suspended from trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market as of the open of business on March 27, 2018 and that the Nasdaq is taking necessary action to delist our stock from The Nasdaq Stock Market.
As previously announced, the Company received a Nasdaq Staff Determination Letter (the “Staff Determination”) on January 4, 2018 stating that the Nasdaq Staff had determined that the Company was a “public shell” under applicable Nasdaq criteria and thus delisting of its stock was warranted.
The Company appealed the Staff Determination and obtained additional time through May 15, 2018 for continued listing, subject to its ability to satisfy the Nasdaq that it was not a “public shell” and that its continued listing was warranted.
On March 21, 2018, the Company informed the Nasdaq that the Company was unlikely to be able to demonstrate compliance with the Nasdaq listing criteria within the prescribed timeframe, and on March 23, 2018, the Nasdaq notified the Company of its decision to suspend the Company’s trading and take necessary actions to delist the Company’s stock.
On March 27, 2018, we announced that our stock would commence trading on the OTCQB Venture Market as of the open of business on March 27, 2018.
Results of Operations for the Three months ended March 31, 2018 Compared to the Three months ended March 31, 2017
General and Administrative.
General and administrative expenses were $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, a decrease of $1.0 million, or 45.9%, from $2.2 million for the prior year period.
This decrease was primarily due to approximately $0.9 million in legal and accounting fees that we incurred in the third quarter of our prior year related to the transaction to sell our Real-Time business that was not consummated until the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year.
Additionally, our third quarter of fiscal 2018 share based compensation expense decreased by approximately $0.1 million relative to the same period in the prior year due to 1) the acceleration of restricted share vesting that occurred with the change of control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business as of December 31, 2017 and 2) the limited number of remaining share-based compensation participants following the sale of both our Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses.
Interest Income.
Interest income in both periods is comprised primarily of interest income on available-for-sale investments.
Interest income increased in the current period relative to the prior period due to our increase in cash and available-for-sale investments as a result of the sales of our Content Delivery business in December 2017 and Real-Time business in May 2017.
Loss from Continuing Operations.
Our loss from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $0.8 million, or $0.09 loss per basic and diluted share, compared to a net loss from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017 of $2.2 million, or $0.24 loss per basic and diluted share.
We recorded $0.2 million and $0.1 million of income tax expense within our Discontinued Operations during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The income tax expense in both periods is primarily related to U.S. State income tax expense and foreign income tax expense in jurisdictions where we do not have available NOLs.
We have adequate federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) to offset the taxable income generated by the sale of our Content Delivery business during the three months ended March 31, 2018; however we do not have adequate State NOLs to offset all of our taxable state income generated by the sale of our Content Delivery business.
Results of Operations for the Nine months ended March 31, 2018 Compared to the Nine months ended March 31, 2017
Interest Income.
Interest income in both periods is comprised primarily of interest income available-for-sale investments.
Interest income increased in the current period relative to the prior period due to our increase in cash and available-for-sale investments as a result of the sale of our Real-Time business in May 2017 and Content Delivery business in December 2017.
Loss from Continuing Operations.
Our loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 was $5.1 million, or $0.53 loss per basic and diluted share, compared to a net loss for the nine months ended March 31, 2017 of $5.2 million, or $0.56 loss per basic and diluted share.
The period-over-period decrease in basic and diluted loss per share resulted from a period-over period increase in weighted average shares outstanding.
We recorded $0.8 million and $0.4 million of income tax expense within our Discontinued Operations during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The income tax expense in both periods is primarily related to U.S. State income tax expense and foreign income tax expense in jurisdictions where we do not have available NOLs.
We have adequate federal NOLs to offset the taxable income generated by the sale of our Content Delivery business during the nine months ended March 31, 2018; however we do not have adequate State NOLs to offset all of our taxable state income generated by the sale of our Content Delivery business.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 ·our future access to capital;
 ·our exploration and evaluation of strategic alternatives;
 ·the number of countries in which we operate, which may require maintenance of minimum cash levels in each country and, in certain cases, may restrict the repatriation of cash, by requiring us to maintain levels of capital;
 ·our ongoing operating expenses; and
 ·potential liquidation of the company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation.
Uses and Sources of Cash
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
We used $7.6 million and generated $2.2 million of cash from operating activities during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Operating cash flows during the nine months ending March 31, 2018 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous year’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business, inventory purchases and accrued compensation, coupled with losses from continuing operations.
Operating cash flows during the nine months ended March 31, 2017 were primarily attributable to the collection of accounts receivable for sales shipped late in the prior year, offset by the current period net loss.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
During the nine months ended March 31, 2018, we generated $28.3 million of cash from the sale of our Content Delivery business and $11.7 million of cash from the maturity of available-for-sale securities.
During the same period, we invested $18.6 million in available-for-sale investments.
Subsequent to the sale of our Content Delivery business, we broadened our investment portfolio from mostly short-term government securities and commercial paper to also include corporate debt and equity securities.
This shift in investments was for the purpose of improving our return on the proceeds from the recent sales of our operating businesses while we evaluate strategic alternatives.
During the same period in the prior year, we invested $2.4 million in highly liquid commercial paper and U.S. Treasury bills with original maturities of more than 3 months but no more than 12 months.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
On January 2, 2018, we purchased 41,566 shares from certain non-Section 16 employees whose shares vested due to the change in control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
The $239 thousand repurchase of shares at $5.76 per share was approved by the Board of Directors on a one-time basis to facilitate employees’ payment of payroll withholding taxes due upon vesting of the shares.
Shares were repurchased from employees only to the extent required to fund minimum required withholding taxes based on the closing price nearest to the December 31, 2017 vest date.
We paid two quarterly cash dividends, each for $0.12 per share, during the first two quarters of our nine-month period ended March 31, 2018, compared to three quarterly cash dividends, each for $0.12 per share, for each of the three quarters of our nine-month period ended March 31, 2017.
We also paid less than $0.1 million of dividends that had been held as dividends payable from previous declarations to restricted stockholders for whom restrictions lapsed during each period.
Additionally, in January 2018, as a result of the acceleration of vesting of substantially all of our previously unvested restricted stock triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business, we paid $0.3 million of previously accrued dividends in January 2018.
On October 27, 2017, we announced the Board of Directors’ decision to suspend future dividends after the payment of the December 2017 quarterly dividend while the Board of Directors and its Investment Committee consider potential acquisition targets and alternative uses of our remaining assets.
Although we do not have any outstanding debt or borrowing facilities in place at March 31, 2018, we periodically review the need for credit arrangements.
Based upon our existing cash balances, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the near term, we believe that existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital, capital expenditure requirements and any dividend payments for at least the next twelve months from the date of issuance of this quarterly report.
We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $62 million and $61.1 million of cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments at March 31, 2018, compared to working capital of $45.3 million and $42.3 million cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments at June 30, 2017.
At March 31, 2018, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures.
As of March 31, 2018, less than 0.1% of our cash is in foreign accounts and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months.
Based upon our existing cash balances and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2018.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The SEC defines “critical accounting estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.
Our critical accounting policies and estimates are disclosed under the section “Application of Critical Accounting Policies” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
Most of our critical accounting policies and estimates have been impacted by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
Recent Accounting Guidance
See Note 2 – Recent Accounting Guidance to our accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting standards including the respective expected dates of adoption and the expected effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements made or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
When used or incorporated by reference in this report, the words “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Statements regarding future events and developments, our future performance, market share, new market growth, payment of dividends, ability to utilize our net deferred tax assets and availability of earnings and profits with respect to dividend income, as well as our expectations, beliefs, plans, estimates or projections relating to the future, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of these laws.
Examples of our forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, our potential liability for any indemnification claim related to the sale of the Real-Time business or Content Delivery business and the timing of release of amounts subject to escrow in connection with either transaction; the ability of the Board of Directors and Investment Committee to identify a suitable acquisition target and the Company’s ability to consummate a transaction with such target; the impact of any strategic initiatives we may undertake; the impact of the current reestablishment of and potential for future release of our tax valuation allowances on future income tax provisions and income taxes paid; expected level of capital additions; our expected cash position; the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuation in currency exchange rates; our sufficiency of cash; and the impact of litigation and the payment of dividends.
These statements are based on beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are based on currently available information.
All forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially from those projected.
The risks and uncertainties which could affect our financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation: uncertainty caused by the Company’s suspension of trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market and transfer of stock listing to the OTCQB Market; the process of evaluation of strategic alternatives; the Company’s ability to compete with experienced investors in the acquisition of one or more businesses, our ability to utilize net operating losses to offset cash taxes in the event of an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Service; changes in and related uncertainties caused by changes in applicable tax laws, the current challenging macroeconomic environment; continuing unevenness of the global economic recovery; and the availability of debt or equity financing to support any liquidity needs; global terrorism; earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters.
Other important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made in this report are discussed in Part I, Item 1A.
of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 filed on September 20, 2017 and the section titled “Risk Factors Relating to the Proposal to Approve the Asset Sale” in our Definitive Proxy Statement filed on November 6, 2017.
Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of such statements.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of future events, new information or otherwise.
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
c. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and affiliated purchasers.
 (1)On January 2, 2018, the Company purchased 41,566 shares from certain employees whose shares vested due to the change in control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
The repurchase of shares was approved by the Board of Directors on a one-time basis to facilitate employees’ payment of payroll withholding taxes due upon vesting of the shares.
Shares were repurchased from employees only to the extent required to fund minimum required withholding taxes based on the closing price nearest to the December 31, 2017 vest date.
Section 16 officers were prohibited from participating in this employee share repurchase.
From April 1 through May 3, 2018, we repurchased an additional 354,336 shares of our common stock, bringing the total shares repurchased this fiscal year to 708,426 at average of $5.12 (of which 666,860 shares were repurchased under the stock repurchase plan described in footnote 2 above).
