 Item 1.Financial Statements
CCUR Holdings, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
CCUR Holdings, Inc.
Consolidated STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
ccur holdings, inc.
Consolidated STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS(Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
ccur holdings, inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 1.Overview of Business and Basis of Presentation
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media.
The Content Delivery business consisted of (i) software, hardware and services for intelligently streaming video content to a variety of consumer devices and storing and managing content in the network and (ii) Aquari™ Storage, a unified scale-out storage solutions product that is ideally suited for a wide range of enterprise IT and video applications that require advanced performance, very large storage capacities, and a high degree of reliability.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
Prior year information has been adjusted to conform to the current year presentation.
Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations.
See Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
In fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other things, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
Through Recur Holdings LLC, we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to applicable rules and regulations.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
The year-end consolidated balance sheet data as of June 30, 2018 was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and may not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
The results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018.
Smaller Reporting Company
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities
We determine the appropriate classification of investments in debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such determinations at each balance sheet date.
Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity.
In some cases, our debt investments may provide for a portion of the interest payable to be payment-in-kind (“PIK”) interest.
To the extent interest is PIK, it is payable through the increase of the principal amount of the loan by the amount of the interest due on the then-outstanding principal amount of the loan.
Advances Receivable
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we provided a $2,000 cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business.
The fee is earned over the six-month advance period and is reported as part of other interest income within the statement of operations.
Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary.
As of September 30, 2018, our advance receivable was not impaired.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Basic and Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share
Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year.
Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.
Due to the loss from continuing operations for both periods presented, weighted average common share equivalents of 31,665 and 218,719 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the calculation as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Fair Value Measurements
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
 ·Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 ·Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable; and
 ·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Guidance
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted
Content Delivery Business
As noted above, on December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of the Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital).
The sale included our Content Delivery business assets and related liabilities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany, as well as the sale of all equity in our Japanese subsidiary.
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
Operating expenses recorded in discontinued operations include costs incurred directly in support of the Content Delivery business.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Investments
Fixed maturity debt securities are classified as “available for sale”, and as such, adjustments to fair value are recorded within other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheet as unrealized gains and losses.
Upon our adoption of ASU 2016-01, effective July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded a $457 unrealized loss on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded a $201 realized gain on the sale of debt and equity securities, as reported within our consolidated statement of operations.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale as of September 30, 2018 are shown by contractual maturity in the table below.
Actual maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
Components of Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We are continuing to evaluate the impact of TCJA in light of the guidance that the U.S. Treasury and various state taxing authorities are releasing.
At this time, we do not believe there will be any material changes to the amounts previously provided for the impact of the TCJA.
We expect to conclude our analysis during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
As a result of the TCJA, we are reassessing our intentions related to our indefinite reinvestment assertion as part of our provisional estimates.
Should we decide to no longer indefinitely reinvest such foreign earnings outside the U.S., we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period such determination is made.
We currently have an immaterial amount of cash available for repatriation of less than $35.
After the TCJA, there should be no federal income taxes that would be due upon repatriation.
Any other impact, such as withholding tax, states taxes, or foreign exchange rate changes, should be immaterial based on the amount of cash held overseas.
Net Operating Losses
As of June 30, 2018, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $56,113 for income tax purposes, of which none expire in fiscal year 2019, and the remainder expire at various dates through fiscal year 2037.
We recently completed an evaluation of the potential effect of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”) on our ability to utilize these net operating losses.
The study concluded that we have not had an ownership change for the period from July 22, 1993 to June 30, 2018; therefore, the NOLs will not be subject to limitation under Section 382.
If we experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, our ability to use these NOLs will be substantially limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset.
We have taken steps to protect the value of our NOLs with a “Tax Asset Preservation Plan” which is described more fully in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, we had state NOLs of $33,240.
The state NOLs expire according to the rules of each state and expiration will occur between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2037.
Deferred Tax Assets and Related Valuation Allowances
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Research and Development Tax Credits
During the year ended June 30, 2017, we applied for both a U.S. federal and state of Georgia research and development tax credit in the amounts of $719 and $675, respectively, for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016.
For U.S. federal tax purposes, the credit cannot be utilized immediately but will carryforward for a period of 20 years.
As we do not expect to be able to realize the benefit of the U.S. federal tax credit carryforward before its expiration, we maintain a full valuation allowance on this item.
For the state of Georgia tax credit, we have recorded the credit within both other current assets and other long-term assets with an offset in both accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets as of September 30 and June 30, 2018, respectively.
As future payroll tax withholdings of our Georgia-based employees become due, we are able to offset the withholding amount dollar-for-dollar against the credit.
As a result, as the credit is claimed, we will (1) reduce other current assets and offset the payroll tax liability and (2) reduce accrued expenses and recognize a reduction of operating expenses.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 we received $173 of proceeds from prior utilization of our State tax credits.
Subsequent to the September 30, 2018 and prior to the filing date of this Form 10Q, we received an additional $376 of proceeds from prior utilization of our State tax credits.
Unrecognized Tax Benefits
We have evaluated our unrecognized tax benefits and determined that there has not been a material change in the amount of such benefits for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
As of September 30, 2018, we had share-based compensation plans which are described in Note 9, “Share-Based Compensation,” to the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
We recognize stock compensation expense over the requisite service period of the individual grantees, which generally equals the vesting period.
As of September 30, 2018, we had 15,000 stock options outstanding and 60,000 restricted shares outstanding.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company did not grant any equity compensation and no options or restricted stock awards vested, forfeited or canceled.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $59 and $149, respectively, of share-based compensation within general and administrative expenses of our continuing operations.
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Defined Benefit Plans
 8.Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses
 9.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Severance Arrangements
Pursuant to the terms of the employment agreements with the chief financial officer and another employee, employment may be terminated by either the respective employee or us at any time.
In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause, or in certain circumstances terminates constructively or expires, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for a period from six to 12 months, depending on the employee, and bonus severance.
Additionally, if terminated, our chief financial officer will be entitled to COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan for the 12-month period following termination.
At September 30, 2018, the maximum contingent liability under these agreements was $491.
 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business.
 Item 1A.
Risk Factors
There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those included in “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, except as noted below.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark that we have under a non-binding letter of intent.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark that we have under a non-binding letter of intent under the terms set forth in the letter of intent, or at all, because the letter of intent is not binding on us or on LuxeMark.
Our acquisition of such interest is subject to us negotiating and executing with LuxeMark a mutually acceptable definitive and binding purchase agreement with respect to the business, which we expect will contain a number of conditions to closing the acquisition, including (i) our completion of satisfactory due diligence with respect to LuxeMark’s business, and (ii) satisfaction of customary closing conditions and, dependent on the results of due diligence and negotiation of the definitive documents between the parties, may require material modifications to the terms set forth in the letter of intent.
There can be no assurance that LuxeMark will be willing to proceed with a transaction, that we will be able to negotiate and execute a satisfactory definitive purchase agreement with LuxeMark, that our due diligence will be satisfactory, or that the conditions to closing will be satisfied.
If we do not complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, we will have expended substantial significant expenses and management resources without our shareholders realizing the potential benefits.
If we are unable to complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, we will have expended significant expenses and management resources related to due diligence, legal and accounting work undertaken for the failed acquisitions without our shareholders realizing any of the potential benefits of such acquisition.
