item1.txt
The Company utilizes lease agreements to meet its operating needs.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
•The Company declined the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term and ROU asset impairment for existing leases.
•The Company declined the short-term lease exception, therefore recognizing all leases in the ROU asset and lease liability balances.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
The weighted-average discount rates used for operating and finance leases varies due to the jurisdictional composition, whereas the Company has an immaterial amount of finance leases that are primarily comprised of leases in Turkey which have higher interest rates.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company did not have any leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations.
The Company determines whether an arrangement is or includes a lease at contract inception.
ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date and initially measured based on the present value of lease payments over the defined lease term.
As most leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Assets were grouped based on similar lease terms and economic environments in a manner whereby the Company reasonably expects that the application does not differ materially from a lease-by-lease approach.
The Company’s share-based compensation payments to employees are recognized based on their grant-date fair values during the period in which the employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award.
The change resulted in an immaterial increase in share-based compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The Company has deferred compensation plans that enable certain employees to defer receipt of a portion of their cash, 401(k) or share-based compensation and non-employee directors to defer receipt of director fees at the participants’ discretion.
For deferred cash-based compensation, the Company established rabbi trusts (refer to note 18), which are recorded at fair value of the underlying securities within securities and other investments.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company's carrying value in Kony was $14.0 and the fair value was not estimated as there were no events or changes in circumstances in the investment.
The income related to the finance lease receivables was minimal for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The Company records interest income and any fees or costs related to financing receivables using the effective interest method over the term of the lease or loan.
Based on the results of the impairment testing, the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment loss of $134.4 related to the Eurasia Banking, EMEA Retail and Rest of World Retail reporting units during the third quarter of 2018.
The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions for suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers.
The Company incurred restructuring charges of $3.8 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to this plan.
The Company incurred $0.1 restructuring charges during the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to this plan.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had various international short-term uncommitted lines of credit with borrowing limits of $50.8.
Following the execution of the Sixth Amendment, the Company has executed, and has caused certain of its subsidiaries to execute, certain foreign security and guaranty documents for the benefit of the secured parties under the Credit Agreement that provide for guarantees by, and additional security with respect to the equity interests in and the the stock of certain foreign subsidiaries.
A portion of the proceeds of the Term Loan A-1 Facility are restricted to fund the purchase of the remaining shares of Diebold Nixdorf AG not owned by the Company.
The debt facilities under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all assets of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries that are borrowers or guarantors under the Credit Agreement, subject to certain exceptions and permitted liens.
The Company's financing agreements contain various financial covenants, including net debt to capitalization, net debt to EBITDA and net interest coverage ratio, along with certain negative covenants that, among other things, limit dividends, acquisitions and the use of proceeds from divestitures.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with the financial and other covenants in its debt agreements.
For the period of time that the DPLTA is effective, this interest in Diebold Nixdorf AG will remain in redeemable noncontrolling interest and presented outside of equity in the consolidated balance sheets of the Company.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the balance related to the redeemable noncontrolling interest related to the Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary shares the Company did not acquire was $87.4 and $99.1, respectively.
The change is primarily related to currency fluctuations and the redemption of 0.2 Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary shares in the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The Company increased its ownership stake in Diebold Nixdorf AG to 28.4 ordinary shares, or approximately 95.3 percent, as of March 31, 2019.
A portion of the proceeds of the Term Loan A-1 Facility are restricted to fund the purchase of the remaining shares of Diebold Nixdorf AG not owned by the Company.
The Company classified the proceeds set aside to purchase the remaining shares in restricted cash in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company divested its interest in Projective NV, a program and project management services business for financial institutions, for $4.2 in proceeds, net of cash transferred resulting in a loss of $2.8.
The Company has non-qualified pension plans to provide supplemental retirement benefits to certain officers, which have also been frozen since December 2013.
Retired eligible employees in the United States may be entitled to these benefits based upon years of service with the Company, age at retirement and collective bargaining agreements.
In March 2018, the Company received a $13.8 reimbursement for certain benefits paid from its trustees.
The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
The Company’s derivative foreign currency instruments are used to manage differences in the amount of the Company’s known or expected cash receipts and cash payments principally related to the Company’s non functional currency assets and liabilities.
Cash Flow Hedges The Company’s objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage its exposure to interest rate movements.
Amounts reported in AOCI related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the Company’s variable-rate debt.
The Company has an interest rate swap for a nominal sum of €50.0, which was entered into in May 2010 with a ten-year term from October 1, 2010 until September 30, 2020.
The Company recognized $0.5 in interest expense relating to the interest rate swap for both the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
At March 31, 2019, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $0.1 for materials and services through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices.


item2.txt
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer intimacy and satisfaction, while providing career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhancing value for shareholders.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
For banking clients, services represents the largest operational component of the Company.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.
The Company’s software encompasses front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms which manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
The Company's advisory services team collaborates with customers to refine the end-user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
Selling and administrative expense in the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $0.4 including higher incremental restructuring of $0.9 and non-routine charges of $6.1.
Excluding the impact of restructuring, non-routine charges and a net favorable currency impact of $8.9, mostly related to the euro, selling and administrative expense increased $2.3, primarily from higher 
Non-routine cost in selling and administrative expense was $44.5 in the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $6.1 compared to the prior year.
Loss of $3.4 on sale of assets recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2019 includes the loss on divestitures of the Venezuela business of $4.1 and a Eurasia non-core business of $2.8, partially offset by a gain on the liquidation of a separate Eurasia non-core business of $3.5.
The operating loss increased in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 including an unfavorable currency impact of $0.8, related primarily to the euro and higher non-routine charges.
Excluding the impact of currency and non-routine charges, operating profit increased $13.0 primarily related to higher product gross profit in the Americas and Eurasia banking segments from large roll out and upgrade projects.
Miscellaneous net, decreased $1.3 in the three months ended March 31, 2019, unfavorably impacted by higher costs and lower benefits associated with the company owned life insurance.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was (85.0) percent for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Eurasia Banking net sales decreased $52.5 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $35.7 related primarily to the euro.
Excluding currency, net sales decreased $16.8 as services revenue decreased primarily from a maintenance contract roll off with a particular customer in India as well as lower products volume in various Asia Pacific countries, most notably in Taiwan from prior year non-recurring project volume.
Segment operating profit increased $14.2 in the three months ended March 31, 2019, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $4.5, primarily due to the euro.
Excluding the impact of currency, operating profit increased $18.7 due in part to higher gross profit on services and products margin improvements.
Additionally, segment operating profit benefited from lower operating expenses tied to DN Now initiatives, restructuring programs and the phase out of non-profitable service contracts in India.
Americas Banking net sales increased $29.0 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $5.9 related to the Brazil real.
Partially offsetting these increases, services revenue declined from lower billed work activity and maintenance contract volume in the U.S. Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring and integration activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows.
Net cash used by operating activities was $57.1 for the three months ended March 31, 2019, a decrease in use of $85.2 from $142.3 for the same period in 2018.
•Cash flows from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 were impacted by a $66.3 increase in net loss.
Refer to the Results of Operations discussed above for further discussion of the Company's net loss.
The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions to suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers.
In addition to the items that the Company disclosed as its critical accounting policies and estimates in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, the company adopted ASU 2016-02 and its subsequent amendments related to lease accounting.


item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act) are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of March 31, 2019 due to the material weaknesses in the Company's internal control over financial reporting as described below.
•The Company had ineffective information technology general controls (ITGCs) related to IT systems used for financial reporting by certain entities throughout the organization.


