item1.txt
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
Product-related services provided by the Company include proactive monitoring and rapid resolution of incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit.
First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
For bundled packages, the Company accounts for individual services separately if they are distinct.
The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells the services.
Revenue on service contracts is recognized ratably over time, generally using an input measure, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed.
The Company provides front-end applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
Revenue from professional services are recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed.
In the case of more significant professional services agreements, when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is also recognized over time.
For bundled packages, the Company accounts for individual system products separately if they are distinct - i.e. if a product or service is separately identifiable from other items in the bundled package and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer.
There have been $8.8 and $9.8 impairment losses recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to receivables or contract assets arising from the Company's contracts with customers.
In 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $121.9 related to the Company's deferred revenue balance at January 1, 2018.
Contract assets are the rights to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the Company has transferred to a customer when that right is conditional on something other than the passage of time.
Contract assets of the Company primarily relate to the Company's rights to consideration for goods shipped and services provided but not contractually billable at the reporting date.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on the remaining performance obligations over the next twelve months.
The Company enters into service agreements with cancellable terms after a certain period without penalty.
The Company adopted Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with a date of initial application of January 1, 2018.
Previously, the Company recognized revenue for professional services contracts either on a milestone method or completed contract basis.
Under Topic 606, the Company recognizes revenue when control transfers to a customer.
Therefore, the Company continues to recognize revenue for such contracts when the services are completed and customers formally accept them.
The Company’s share-based compensation payments to employees are recognized based on their grant-date fair values during the period in which the employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award.
As of March 31, 2017, the Company was not able to reasonably estimate the annual effective tax rate for the year ending December 31, 2017, because small fluctuations in the Company's earnings before taxes could have resulted in a material change in the estimated annual tax rate.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily a result of the jurisdictional income (loss) mix and varying statutory rates in the Company's global footprint.
As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had accounts payable balances with these affiliates of $26.1 and $17.8, respectively, which are included in accounts payables on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company's carrying value in Kony was $14.0 and the fair value was not estimated as there were no events or changes in circumstances in the investment.
The Company has finance lease receivables of $13.3 and $14.4 in other assets as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company records interest income and any fees or costs related to financing receivables using the effective interest method over the term of the lease or loan.
The Company's total amortization expense, including deferred financing costs, was $39.9 and $39.4 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
The Company incurred restructuring charges of $3.8 and $12.9 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to DN2020.
The Company anticipates additional restructuring costs of approximately $50 primarily related to severance anticipated for completion of the Company's integration and transformation plans throughout the three lines of business to be incurred through the end of DN2020.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company does not anticipate additional restructuring costs to be incurred through the end of the plan.
The Company incurred $0.1 restructuring charges during the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to this plan.
During 2017, the Company acquired all the capital stock of Moxx and certain assets and liabilities of Visio for $5.6 in the aggregate, net of cash acquired, which are included in the Services the line of business (LOB).
During the third quarter of 2017, the Company acquired Moxx, which is a Netherlands based managed services company that provides managed mobility solutions for enterprises that use a large number of mobile assets in their business operations.
Retired eligible employees in the U.S. may be entitled to these benefits based upon years of service with the Company, age at retirement and collective bargaining agreements.
The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
The Company’s derivative foreign currency instruments are used to manage differences in the amount of the Company’s known or expected cash receipts and cash payments principally related to the Company’s non functional currency assets and liabilities.
The Company uses derivatives to manage potential changes in value of its net investments.
No ineffectiveness results if the notional amount of the derivative matches the portion of the net investment designated as being hedged because the Company uses derivative instruments with underlying exchange rates consistent with its functional currency and the functional currency of the hedged net investment.
The fair value of the Company’s net investment hedge contracts were $(0.1) and $2.0 as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
On August 15, 2016, the Company designated its €350.0 euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility as a net investment hedge of its investments in certain subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency in order to reduce volatility in stockholders' equity caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the euro with respect to the U.S. dollar.
Effectiveness is assessed at least quarterly by confirming that the respective designated net investments' net equity balances at the beginning of any period collectively continues to equal or exceed the balance outstanding on the Company's euro-denominated term loan.
The fair value of the Company's interest rate contracts was $13.1 and $9.8 as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Amounts reported in AOCI related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the Company’s variable-rate debt.
At March 31, 2018, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $3.5 for materials and services through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices.
The Company's accounting policies derive segment results that are the same as those the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) regularly reviews and uses to make decisions, allocate resources and assess performance.
The Company’s operating structure is based on a number of factors that management uses to evaluate, view and run its business operations, which currently includes, but is not limited to, product, service and solution.
The Company measures the performance of each segment based on several metrics, including net sales and segment operating profit.
Net non-routine expense consists of items that the Company has determined are non-routine in nature and not allocated to the LOBs. Net non-routine expense of $35.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was due to acquisition integration expenses of $15.2 primarily within selling and administrative expense and purchase accounting pre-tax charges for amortization of acquired intangibles of $31.2.
Net non-routine expense of $77.4 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily due to legal, acquisition and divestiture related costs of $18.9 inclusive of the mark-to-market impact on Diebold Nixdorf AG stock options and integration expenses of $12.9 primarily within selling and administrative expense and purchase accounting pretax charges, which included deferred revenue of $10.4 and $31.8 in amortization of acquired intangibles.


item2.txt
The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customer's integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and the digital worlds of transactions.
Customers of the Company include nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers.
In May 2018, the Company announced its plans to build upon the achievements of its integration and transformation program while improving Company profitability and cash flow through relentless focus on our customers, operational excellence and forming a unified culture.
The Company’s current operating structure is based on a number of factors that management uses to evaluate, view and run its business operations, which currently includes, but is not limited to, product, service and solution.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel, bank branch and retail store networks.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
An important enabler of the Company’s software business is the more than 1,900 professional service employees who provide systems integration, customization, consulting and project management.
The Company's advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
The Company integrates component technologies according to customer specifications in order to optimize the total cost of ownership and maximize transaction availability while creating a positive impression on customers.
Leveraging the broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers the flexibility to select the combination of services, software and systems that drives the most value to their business.
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
Systems gross margin in the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased primarily as a result of higher purchase accounting adjustments in the prior year of $14.5 and the current year benefit from Brazil indirect tax accrual reversal of $3.7.
Non-routine costs in selling and administrative expense of $38.5 and $49.1 were included in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In the three months ended March 31, 2018, the gain on sale of assets was primarily related to the sale of a building in North America of $4.5 and the liquidation of the Barbados operating entity of $3.3.
The operating loss decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due primarily from decreased operating expenses as a result of lower non-routine and restructuring charges.
The decrease in interest income in the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared with the same period in 2017, was the result of lower average balances and reduced current period rates of short-term investments in Brazil.
Interest expense was lower in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same prior-year period due to the favorable impact of refinancing the debt related to the Acquisition.
As of March, 31, 2017, the Company was not able to reasonably estimate the annual effective tax rate for the year ending December 31, 2017, because small fluctuations in the Company's earnings before taxes could have resulted in a material change in the estimated annual tax rate.
For this reason, the Company did not believe the estimated annual tax rate would provide a reliable estimate and as a result, the Company computed the interim tax rate based on the actual year-to-date results.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily a result of the jurisdictional income (loss) mix and varying statutory rates in the Company's global footprint.
Net cash used by operating activities was $142.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase in use of $76.0 from $66.3 for the same period in 2017.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased $8.5 to $67.1 during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to $58.6 during the same period in 2017 primarily due to incremental intangible assets amortization expense related to the finalization of purchase accounting.
Debt As of March 31, 2018, the Company had various international short-term uncommitted lines of credit with borrowing limits of $213.2.
Dividends The Company paid dividends of $7.7 and $7.6 in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Contractual Obligations In the first three months ended of 2017, the Company entered into purchase commitments due within one year for materials through contract manufacturing agreements for a total negotiated price.


item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act) are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.


