In our contracts, multiple promises are separated if they are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract.
Administrative penalties under the EAR can range from a warning letter to a denial of export privileges.
Our basic earnings per share ("EPS") is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares (including vested but unissued stock units, share units, performance shares and restricted stock units ("RSUs")), outstanding during each respective period.
See Note (18) - "Stockholders’ Equity" for more information.
If we fail the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment ("quantitative assessment"), we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
A customer that purchased a TCS 911 call handling software solution in December 2014 (which was more than one year prior to our acquisition of TCS) (the "TCS Legacy Customer") informed us in fiscal 2019 that it experienced several network outages and that it would seek indemnification for any claims made against it as a result of such outages.
There are certain other pending and threatened legal actions which arise in the normal course of business.
There are certain other pending and threatened legal actions which arise in the normal course of business.•Consistent with Comtech's business cycle for the past several years, our financial performance in the second half of fiscal 2020 is anticipated to be higher than the first half.
Excluding such costs, our selling, general and administrative expenses would have been $30.4 million, or 18.9% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended October 31, 2018.
The remaining research and development expenses of $0.1 million for both the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense.
Under ASC 606, payments received from customers in excess of revenue recognized to date results in a contract liability.
Our Government Solutions segment represented 44.6% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended October 31, 2019, as compared to 51.5% for the three months ended October 31, 2018.
As for commissions payable to our third-party sales representatives related to large long-term contracts, we do consider these types of commissions both direct and incremental costs to obtain and fulfill such contracts.
In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions, we continue to see requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms.
Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were $76.0 million for the three months ended October 31, 2019 as compared to $82.9 million for the three months ended October 31, 2018, a decrease of $6.9 million, or 8.3%.
Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2020 assumes, similar to the prior three fiscal years, that we will continue to pay certain annual non-equity incentive awards in the form of fully-vested share units.
Contract revenue and cost estimates for significant contracts are generally reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly.