During the nine months ended April 30, 2019, this matter was resolved in our favor.
Under ASC 606, payments received from customers in excess of revenue recognized to-date results in a contract liability.
Share units granted on or after July 31, 2017 were granted to certain employees in lieu of non-equity incentive compensation and are convertible into shares of our common stock on the one-year anniversary of the respective grant date.
Our blended interest rate approximated 5.00% and 5.49%, respectively, for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, and approximated 5.36% and 5.29%, respectively, for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018.
When calculating our diluted earnings per share, we consider the amount an employee must pay upon assumed exercise of stock-based awards and the amount of stock-based compensation cost attributed to future services and not yet recognized.
The acquired identifiable intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis, which we believe approximates the pattern in which the assets are utilized over their estimated useful lives.
The amount for the most recent fiscal year-to-date period relates to both our Prior Credit Facility and new Credit Facility; whereas, the amount in the comparable prior year period relates only to our Prior Credit Facility.Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 now assumes total annual amortization of intangible assets of approximately $18.3 million.
As a result of our acquisition of the GD NG-911 business in late April 2019, amortization of intangible assets during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 is estimated to increase to $5.2 million as compared to the $4.5 million recorded in our third quarter of fiscal 2019.
As of April 30, 2019, the remaining estimated facility exit costs amounted to $1.0 million, of which $0.6 million and $0.4 million, respectively, was included in "accrued expenses and other current liabilities" and "other liabilities (non-current)" on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Amortization of stock-based compensation for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 reflects a reversal of $0.4 million of stock-based compensation expense related to certain performance shares that were previously expected to be earned.
There were no repurchases of our common stock during the three or nine months ended April 30, 2019 or 2018.
Based on the mix and anticipated timing of shipments and performance related to orders currently in our backlog and the mix and timing of expected new orders, gross profit for this segment, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for fiscal 2019 is expected to be comparable to the level achieved in fiscal 2018.
These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
This ASU should be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption.
Such decrease was partially offset by non-deductible transaction costs related to the acquisition of Solacom and lower tax deductions for certain executive compensation expenses.
Nevertheless, based on expected bookings, expected timing of our performance on orders and the anticipated increase in our Government Solutions segment net sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales, we currently expect our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for fiscal 2019 to be similar to the percentage we achieved in fiscal 2018.
Our third quarter of fiscal 2019 was an exceptional quarter of bookings.
These contract liabilities are not considered to represent a significant financing component of the contract because we believe these cash advances and deposits are generally used to meet working capital demands which can be higher in the earlier stages of a contract.