In connection with Tax Reform, during the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded an estimated net discrete tax benefit of $14,018,000, primarily related to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities associated with non-deductible amortization related to intangible assets.
Share units granted on or after July 31, 2017 were granted to certain employees in lieu of fiscal 2017 non-equity incentive compensation and are convertible into shares of our common stock on the one-year anniversary of the grant date.
The performance shares granted to employees since fiscal 2014 principally vest over a three-year performance period, if pre-established performance goals are attained or as specified pursuant to the Plan and related agreements.
Diluted earnings per share - Prior to the adoption of ASU 2016-09, in addition to considering the amount an employee must pay upon assumed exercise of stock-based awards and the amount of stock-based compensation cost attributed to future services and not yet recognized, when calculating our diluted earnings per share, the assumed proceeds also included the amount of excess tax benefits, if any, that would have been credited to additional paid-in capital assuming exercise of in-the-money stock-based awards.
The discount rates used in our DCF method were based on a weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC") determined from relevant market comparisons, adjusted upward for specific reporting unit risks (primarily the uncertainty of achieving projected operating cash flows).
The performance shares granted to employees since fiscal 2014 principally vest over a three-year performance period, if pre-established performance goals are attained or as specified pursuant to the Plan and related agreements.Included in consolidated cost of sales for the six months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $2.4 million and $1.1 million, respectively.
These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Under the market approach, we estimated a fair value based on comparable companies' market multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and factored in a control premium.
Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other personnel-related expenses associated with product development.
The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of any potential cash settlement with the taxing authorities.
Bookings during the most recent fiscal quarter were strong and reflect continued strength in almost all of our Commercial Solutions product lines.
We believe that the carrying values of our net intangible assets were recoverable as of January 31, 2018.
Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before income taxes, interest (income) and other expense, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, settlement of intellectual property litigation, acquisition plan expenses or strategic alternatives analysis expenses and other.
In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions, we continue to see requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms.
Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements requires judgment to determine if multiple elements exist, whether elements can be accounted for as separate units of accounting, and if so, the fair value for each of the elements.
As such, we anticipate amortization of intangibles in fiscal 2018, in dollars, to be lower than in fiscal 2017.
Ultimately, the availability of our cash and cash equivalents is dependent on a well-functioning liquid market.
Our backlog does not include the unfunded portions of multi-year contracts.