Total stock-based compensation capitalized and included in ending inventory at both October 31, 2018 and July 31, 2018 was $48,000.
During the three months ended October 31, 2018, we exited our Government Solutions segment's manufacturing facility located in Tampa, Florida and recorded a related charge of $1,373,000 in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
If we fail the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment ("quantitative assessment"), pursuant to our adoption of FASB ASU No.
Administrative penalties under the EAR are currently determined pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ("IEEPA"), which can reach the greater of twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation or approximately $300,000 per violation.
Our capital leases generally contain provisions whereby we can purchase the equipment at the end of the lease for a one dollar buyout.
For service-based contracts in both our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions product lines, we recognize revenue over time.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and TWTAs), public safety systems (such as NG911 technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as messaging and trusted location-based technologies).Looking forward, unallocated operating expenses are expected to be higher in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
We also continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio and have not had material negative customer credit experiences historically.
The three months ended October 31, 2017 also included a favorable warranty settlement which resulted in a reduction of $0.7 million to cost of sales in our unallocated segment.
2017-04 in fiscal 2017, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
We initiated shipments of our MT-2025 transceivers in fiscal 2018 and continued such shipments in our first quarter of fiscal 2019.
•Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller governments, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs.
As a practical expedient, we adopted the new standard only for existing contracts as of August 1, 2018.
The remeasurement was recorded pursuant to ASC 740 "Income Taxes" and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118.
In many cases, we provide assurance-type warranty coverage for some of our products for a period of at least one year from the date of delivery.
The decrease from 34.5% to 22.75% is principally attributable to the passage of Tax Reform which reduced the statutory income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%.
Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements.