As of January 31, 2019 and July 31, 2018, the net book value of the leased assets which collateralize the capital lease and other obligations was $1,542,000 and $2,547,000, respectively, and consisted primarily of machinery and equipment.
Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors.
During the three and six months ended January 31, 2019, we made cash payments of $181,000 related to such facility exit cost accrual.
As such, we have ceased offering certain solutions and do not intend to renew certain contracts.
When identifying the transaction price, we typically utilize the contract's stated price as a starting point.
ESPP stock-based compensation expense primarily relates to the 15% discount offered to participants in the ESPP.Based on the type, terms, amount of outstanding debt (including capital leases and other obligations) and current interest rates, our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in fiscal 2019 is now anticipated to range from 5.3% to 5.5%.
This increase is largely due to an increase in the number and value of annual non-equity incentive awards expected to be granted in fiscal 2019 as a result of anticipated operating income contributions from each of our two reportable operating segments.
As a result of the final rule’s amendments, the SEC now requires a registrant to reconcile its changes in stockholders' equity for both the current and comparative interim and year-to-date periods, with subtotals.
Overall, looking forward, based on the mix and anticipated timing of shipments and performance related to orders currently in our backlog and the mix and timing of expected new orders, gross profit for this segment, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for fiscal 2019 is expected to be lower than the level achieved in fiscal 2018.
These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
In accordance with FASB ASC 350 "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other," we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods.
Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established.
We do not expect that these commitments, as of January 31, 2019, will materially adversely affect our liquidity.
The remeasurement was recorded pursuant to ASC 740 "Income Taxes" and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118.
Incremental costs to obtain or fulfill contracts with an amortization period greater than one year were not material.
2017-12, issued in August 2017, which expands and refines hedge accounting for both nonfinancial and financial risk components and simplifies and aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial statements.
There was no material impact to our condensed consolidated financial statements (including any cumulative-effect adjustment) and disclosures upon such adoption.