fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The July 28, 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 2018.
The share of earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interests are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of October 27, 2018; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the three months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017; the statements of cash flows and equity for the three months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, as applicable, have been made.
We have evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.
ASC 606 primarily impacts our revenue recognition for software arrangements and sales to two-tier distributors.
In addition to the above revenue recognition timing impacts, ASC 606 requires incremental contract acquisition costs (such as sales commissions) for customer contracts to be capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer to the customer of the goods or services to which the assets relates.
We enter into contracts with customers that can include various combinations of products and services which are generally distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
As a result, our contracts may contain multiple performance obligations.


item2.txt
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for impact of this adoption on our operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we saw broad-based growth across the business and delivered solid revenue growth, margins and operating cash flow.
Our product revenue reflected solid growth in Infrastructure Platforms, Applications and Security, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
Within total revenue, product revenue increased by 9% and service revenue increased by 3%.
Total gross margin increased by 1.1 percentage points, driven primarily by productivity improvements and the $122 million legal and indemnification settlement charge recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $401 million, EMEA revenue increased by $315 million, and revenue in our APJC segment increased by $219 million.
The “BRICM” countries experienced product revenue growth of 24% in the aggregate, driven by increased product revenue in the emerging countries of Mexico, India, Russia and Brazil of 64%, 55%, 23% and 1%, respectively, while product revenue in China was flat.


item3.txt
At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our available-for-sale debt investment portfolio.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 2018.
For example, emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in product orders in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, in fiscal 2017 and in certain prior periods.
Impairment of that trust, or foreign regulatory actions taken in response to reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government, could affect the demand for our products from customers outside of the United States and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty.
In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs.
The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in revenue.
A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter revenue and operating results.


