fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The July 27, 2019 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 27, 2019.
The share of earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interests are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
We have evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
In addition, new disclosures are required to enable users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We adopted this standard at the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2020 and applied it at the beginning of the period of adoption and did not restate prior periods.
We adopted ASC 842 on July 28, 2019 which resulted in the recognition of $1.2 billion of operating lease ROU assets included in other assets and $1.2 billion of operating lease liabilities included in other current liabilities and other long-term liabilities.
Our ROU lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments related to the lease.
Our lease portfolio primarily consists of sales-type leases.
The residual value on our leased equipment is determined at the inception of the lease based on an analysis of estimates of the value of equipment, market factors and historical customer behavior.


item2.txt
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we delivered solid results with growth in revenue and strong gross margin.
Within total revenue, product revenue was flat and service revenue increased by 3%.
Total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased 2% not including revenue from the SPVSS business in the prior year period.
Total gross margin increased by 2.0 percentage points, driven by productivity improvements and product mix, and to a lesser extent, partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $226 million and EMEA revenue increased by $59 million.
Revenue in our APJC segment decreased by $197 million.
The increase was driven by solid product revenue growth in Security and Applications of 22% and 6%, respectively, and was offset by a product revenue decrease in Infrastructure Platforms of 1%.


item3.txt
Our primary objective for holding available-for-sale debt investments is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
For example, emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in product orders in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and in certain prior periods.
Impairment of that trust, or foreign regulatory actions taken in response to reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government, could affect the demand for our products from customers outside of the United States and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty.
In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs.
The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in revenue.
A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes.
Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods.


