fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying financial data as of April 28, 2018 and for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017 has been prepared by the Company, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
The July 29, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2017.
SOFTBANK’s share of the earnings in the venture fund are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of April 28, 2018; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017; the statements of cash flows and equity for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, as applicable, have been made.
The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
Share-Based Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that impacts the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
This resulted in an overall decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 due to recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.
The application of this accounting standard update did not have a material impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.


item2.txt
In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we saw broad strength across the business and delivered strong revenue growth and solid margins.
Our product revenue reflected growth in Infrastructure Platforms, Applications and Security, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $115 million, EMEA revenue increased by $282 million, and revenue in our APJC segment increased by $126 million.
From a product category perspective, the product revenue increase of 5% was driven by a 2% product revenue increase in Infrastructure Platforms and solid product revenue growth in Applications and Security, which grew by 19% and 11%, respectively.
We had a net loss of $3.7 billion and a net loss per share of $0.76, primarily due to the $11.1 billion provisional tax expense related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), comprised of $8.9 billion of U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax, and $1.0 billion of net deferred tax assets re-measurement.
We believe that our customers are looking for intelligent networks that provide meaningful business value through automation, security, and analytics.
For additional discussion of our strategy and priorities, see Item 1. Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 29, 2017.
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 29, 2017, as updated as applicable in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements herein, describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.


item3.txt
At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities that remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $234 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.5 billion for interest, and $1.1 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of April 28, 2018.
We have completed a thorough review of the matters and believe the asserted claims against our Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and we are defending the claims vigorously.
While we believe there is no legal basis for the alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against our Brazilian subsidiary and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any.
SSL SSL Services, LLC (“SSL”) has asserted claims for patent infringement against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.


