Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. – Contingent consideration is classified as a financing activity pursuant to ASU 2016-15.
In this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, Mesa Laboratories, Inc., a Colorado corporation, together with its subsidiaries is collectively referred to as “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa.” We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
This quarterly report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018.
As of December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, our financial instruments were categorized as Level 1 (inputs are quoted prices in active markets) and include cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and short-term and long-term debt.
With the exception of long-term debt, the carrying value of these financial instruments is considered to be representative of their fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
Our debt has a variable interest rate, so the carrying amount approximates fair value because interest rates on these instruments approximate the interest rate on debt with similar terms available to us.
We made an initial allocation of the purchase price at the date of acquisition based on our understanding of the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities.
We obtained the information to make the allocation during due diligence and through the use of other information available to us.Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
Sterilization and disinfection control products and most products in our Cold Chain Packaging Division are disposable and are used on a routine basis, thus product sales are less sensitive to general economic conditions.
Service demand is driven by our customers’ quality control and regulatory environments, which require periodic repair and recalibration or certification of our instrument products and cold chain monitoring systems.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we completed a business combination (the “Point Six Wireless Acquisition”) whereby we acquired substantially all of the assets (other than current assets) and certain liabilities of Point Six Wireless, LLC’s continuous monitoring business.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations), which was completed as of December 31, 2018.Part II.