fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by Cabot Microelectronics pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP).
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics’ financial position as of December 31, 2018, cash flows for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, and results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
The results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018 may not be indicative of results to be expected for future periods, including the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019.
This Report on Form 10-Q does not contain all of the footnote disclosures from the annual financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in Cabot Microelectronics’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cabot Microelectronics and its subsidiaries.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
Except for the discussion on revenue recognition below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
The Company changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition for customer incentives that provide free products and tiered pricing.
For free products, the new revenue standards require that a portion of the transaction price be allocated to the free product and deferred until the product has been delivered.
In prior fiscal years, in accordance with ASC 605, we did not consider prospective tiered pricing to represent a material right.
We have determined that the effect of applying the new revenue standards during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 was immaterial to our financial statements compared to revenue guidance in effect before the adoption of the new revenue standards.
As a result, for the quarter ended December 31, 2018, we are not disclosing the quantitative amount by which each financial statement line item is affected by the application of the new revenue standards.
As part of the adoption of ASU 606, the Company elected to use certain allowed practical expedients.
For the Company’s contracts that have an original duration of one year or less as of the adoption date, the Company uses the practical expedient applicable to such contracts and does not consider the time value of money.
Further, because of the short duration of these contracts, the Company has not disclosed the transaction price for the future performance obligations as of the end of each reporting period for contracts having an expected duration of one year or less.
for disaggregated revenue, the reconciliation of contract balances and transaction price allocation to remaining performance obligations for contracts expected to remain effective beyond one year.
At contract inception, the Company assesses the goods and services promised in its contracts with customers and identifies a performance obligation for each material promise to the customer.


item2.txt
Revenue for our first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $221.8 million, which represented an increase of 58.4% from the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Net income was $13.4 million in our first quarter of fiscal 2019, which was $16.5 million higher than the net loss reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, which included a $32.9 million charge related to the Tax Act. Acquisition-related expenses and a charge for the fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold negatively impacted net income this quarter by $32.5 million.
In addition, higher amortization and depreciation costs associated with purchase accounting adversely impacted net income in the current quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA benefited from improved profitability in the Company’s legacy businesses and the addition of the KMG businesses.
Adjusted EBITDA margin, which represents adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue, was 34.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 31.0% for our first quarter of fiscal 2018.
We currently expect our adjusted EBITDA for full fiscal year 2019 to be between $325 million and $355 million.


item3.txt
Some of our foreign operations maintain their accounting records in their local currencies.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of December 31, 2018.


part2.txt
Transactions such as these could have negative effects on our results of operations, in areas such as contingent liabilities, gross margins, amortization charges related to intangible assets and other effects of accounting for the purchases of other business entities.
Although our product offerings have expanded with the acquisition of KMG, our business remains substantially dependent on our electronic materials products, such as CMP slurries, pads and electronic chemicals, which account for the majority of our revenue.
Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the industries in which we operate, particularly the semiconductor industry, and to adapt, improve and customize our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends.
Since its inception, the semiconductor industry, which is the largest industry in which we operate, has experienced technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices.
Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads and electronic chemicals, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce.


