Our Provision for income taxes was $354 million and $504 million for the third quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $842 million and $1.19 billion for the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The results for the three- and nine-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
The time frame between when the customer places an order for products and when it is shipped is less than 12 months.
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
The revenue information is not necessarily indicative of the geographic area in which the end applications containing our products are ultimately consumed because our products tend to be shipped to the locations where our customers manufacture their products.
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
We have a variety of types of contracts with our customers and distributors.
The majority of our customers pay these fees directly to third parties.Acquisition charges of $80 million were non-cash.
Acquisition charges of $239 million were non-cash.
Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations.
Revenue of $4.26 billion increased $145 million, or 4 percent, due to higher revenue from Analog, partially offset by lower revenue from Embedded Processing.
In our core businesses, Analog revenue grew 8 percent and Embedded Processing declined 4 percent from the same quarter a year ago.
Operating profit decreased primarily due to lower revenue.
Days sales outstanding at the end of the third quarter of 2018 were 33 compared with 31 at the end of 2017.
Our cash flow from operations of $7.0 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.If we do update any forward-looking statement, you should not infer that we will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statement.