The results for the three-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
Interest and debt expense was $38 million and $23 million for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
There was no impairment of goodwill during the first three months of 2019 or 2018.
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Revenue from products shipped into China was $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion in the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.Investing activities for the first three months of 2019 provided $1.17 billion compared with $266 million in the year-ago period.
Acquisition charges of $79 million were non-cash.
Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations.
Other revenue decreased by $17 million, and operating profit decreased by $12 million.
In our core businesses, Analog revenue declined 2% and Embedded Processing declined 14% from the same quarter a year ago.
Our cash flow from operations of $7.2 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
Dividends paid were $724 million compared with $611 million in the year-ago period, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding.
Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.If we do update any forward-looking statement, you should not infer that we will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statement.