fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of HP and its wholly-owned subsidiaries are prepared in conformity with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
The Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements include the accounts of HP and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which HP has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary.
Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP implemented an organizational change to align its business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
In connection with the Separation, HP entered into a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and various other agreements with Hewlett Packard Enterprise that provide a framework for the relationships between the parties.
In March 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance, which addresses the improvement of the presentation of net periodic pension and net periodic post-retirement benefit cost.
The guidance requires entities to present the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost in the same income statement line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period.
Additionally, the guidance requires that companies present the other components of the net periodic benefit cost separately from the line item that includes service cost and any other subtotal of income from operations.
The reclassification resulted in an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses and a reduction in interest and other, net of $58 million and $118 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively.
HP adopted the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective method applied to contracts that were not completed as of November 1, 2018.
HP recognized the net impact of adoption as an increase to accumulated deficit by $212 million, net of tax on November 1, 2018.
HP will capitalize the eligible sales commission costs for contracts with terms of more than one year and will amortize these costs over the expected period of the benefit.
HP evaluates customers’ ability to pay based on various factors like historical payment experience, financial metrics and customer credit scores.
3.Determine the transaction price - Transaction price is the amount of consideration to which HP expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer.
If the transaction price includes a variable amount, HP estimates the amount it expects to be entitled to using either the expected value or most likely amount method.
HP reduces the transaction price at the time of revenue recognition for customer and distributor programs and incentive offerings, rebates, promotions, other volume-based incentives and expected returns.
HP generally invoices the customer upon delivery of the goods or services and the payments are due as per contract terms.
HP records revenue on a gross basis when HP is a principal in the transaction and on a net basis when HP is acting as an agent between the customer and the vendor.


item2.txt
An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on MPS and Instant Ink, supporting our strategy of placing higher value printer units (including our A3 products and solutions) which offer strong annuity of toner and ink.
As a result, significant contract interpretation may be required to determine the appropriate accounting, including the identification of performance obligations considered to be separate units of accounting, the allocation of the transaction price among performance obligations in the arrangement and the timing of transfer of control of promised goods or services for each of those performance obligations.
A performance obligation constitutes a separate unit of accounting when the customer can benefit from the goods or services either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the customer and the performance obligation is distinct within the context of the contract.
We reduce the transaction price at the time of revenue recognition for customer and distributor programs and incentive offerings, rebates, promotions, other volume-based incentives and expected returns.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of a promised good or service to a customer.
For fixed price support or maintenance and other service contracts that are in the nature of stand-ready obligations, payments are generally received in advance from customers and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over time for the duration of the contract.


item3.txt



item4.txt
HP acquired the Apogee group, a U.K. based office equipment dealer, on November 1, 2018.


part2.txt
One set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, which may include declines in the markets in which we operate.
A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution.
In addition, we have in the recent past and may again in the future face macroeconomic challenges, including weakness in certain geographic regions and global political developments that impact international trade, such as trade disputes and increased tariffs.
We may also be vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address such challenges given the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate.
Our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of products and services to meet the demands of a continually changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas of industry decline.


