item1.txt
The Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements include the accounts of HP and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which HP has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary.
Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP implemented an organizational change to align its business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
HP reflected this change to its business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
In connection with the Separation, HP entered into a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and various other agreements with Hewlett Packard Enterprise that provide a framework for the relationships between the parties.
Additionally, the guidance requires that companies present the other components of the net periodic benefit cost separately from the line item that includes service cost and any other subtotal of income from operations.
HP adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and elected to use the practical expedient.
HP adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
HP adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
HP adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
HP adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
HP adopted the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective method applied to contracts that were not completed as of November 1, 2018.
HP recognized the net impact of adoption as an increase to accumulated deficit by $212 million, net of tax on November 1, 2018.
HP evaluates customers’ ability to pay based on various factors like historical payment experience, financial metrics and customer credit scores.
3.Determine the transaction price - Transaction price is the amount of consideration to which HP expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer.
If the transaction price includes a variable amount, HP estimates the amount it expects to be entitled to using either the expected value or most likely amount method.
HP generally invoices the customer upon delivery of the goods or services and the payments are due as per contract terms.
HP records revenue on a gross basis when HP is a principal in the transaction and on a net basis when HP is acting as an agent between the customer and the vendor.


item2.txt
We typically experience higher net revenues in our fourth quarter compared to other quarters in our fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand.
Historical seasonal patterns should not be considered reliable indicators of our future net revenues or financial performance.
As a result, significant contract interpretation may be required to determine the appropriate accounting, including the identification of performance obligations considered to be separate units of accounting, the allocation of the transaction price among performance obligations in the arrangement and the timing of transfer of control of promised goods or services for each of those performance obligations.
A performance obligation constitutes a separate unit of accounting when the customer can benefit from the goods or services either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the customer and the performance obligation is distinct within the context of the contract.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of a promised good or service to a customer.
For fixed price support or maintenance and other service contracts that are in the nature of stand-ready obligations, payments are generally received in advance from customers and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over time for the duration of the contract.
In instances when revenue is derived from sales of third-party vendor products or services, we record revenue on a gross basis when we are a principal in the transaction and on a net basis when we are acting as an agent between the customer and the vendor.
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, total net revenue remained flat (increased 2% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Exhibits.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018, Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2019, and Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2019, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock.
One set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, which may include declines in the markets in which we operate.
Our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.


