fls.txt



item1.txt
In connection with the Separation, Hewlett-Packard Company changed its name to HP Inc.
The accompanying Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of HP and its wholly-owned subsidiaries are prepared in conformity with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 14, 2017.
The Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements include the accounts of HP and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which HP has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary.
HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
HP reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
See Note 2, “Segment Information”, for a further discussion of HP’s segment and business unit realignments.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP is required to adopt the guidance retrospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which requires credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, not based on incurred losses.
HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP will adopt the new lease standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a modified retrospective approach.
HP is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP will adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and intends to apply the modified retrospective method.
HP is a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions and services.
HP sells to individual consumers, small and medium-sized businesses (“SMBs”) and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors.
Additionally, HP offers a range of services and solutions to enterprise and SMBs to help them manage the lifecycle of their PC and mobility installed base.


item2.txt
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion and for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax expense of $379 million, which are considered provisional estimates under the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No. 118, which addresses how a company recognizes provisional estimates when a company does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete its accounting for the effect of the changes in the TCJA.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to the $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by a $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and a $1.2 billion net expense for the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate and for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to realization on U.S. deferred taxes that are expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount.
The effects of the TCJA related to these policies are referenced and discussed in detail in Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, total net revenue increased 11.7% (increased 8.8% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, our gross margin decreased by 0.2 percentage points as compared to the prior-year period.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 11.9% and 14.1% for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, respectively, as compared to the prior-year periods, primarily driven by incremental go-to-market investments to support revenue growth, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Restructuring and other charges for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018 relate primarily to the Fiscal 2017 Plan and certain non-recurring costs, including those as a result of the Separation.
ended July 31, 2018 include an adjustment to the carrying amount of certain held for sale assets of $29 million associated with the consolidation of manufacturing into global hubs.
Acquisition-related charges for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018 relate primarily to third-party professional and legal fees, and integration-related costs, as well as fair value adjustments of certain acquired assets such as inventory.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Exhibits.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Experienced computer programmers and hackers, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns.


