fls.txt



item1.txt
In connection with the Separation, Hewlett-Packard Company changed its name to HP Inc.
The accompanying Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of HP and its wholly-owned subsidiaries are prepared in conformity with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
The Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements include the accounts of HP and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which HP has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary.
HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
HP reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
HP is required to adopt the guidance retrospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which requires credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, not based on incurred losses.
HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a modified retrospective approach.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
HP will adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and intends to apply the modified retrospective method.
HP is a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions and services.
HP sells to individual consumers, small and medium-sized businesses (“SMBs”) and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors.
Additionally, HP offers a range of services and solutions to enterprise and SMBs to help them manage the lifecycle of their PC and mobility installed base.
•Office Printing Solutions delivers HP’s office printers, supplies, services, and solutions to SMBs and large enterprises.
•Home Printing Solutions delivers innovative printing products and solutions for the home and home business or small office customers utilizing both HP’s Ink and Laser technologies.
Corporate Investments includes HP Labs and certain business incubation projects.
The accounting policies HP uses to derive segment results are substantially the same as those used by HP in preparing these financial statements.


item2.txt
An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Managed Print Services and Instant Ink, which presents strong after-market supplies opportunities.
Our focus is on placing higher value printer units which offer strong annuity of toner and ink, the design and deployment of A3 products and solutions, accelerating growth in Graphic solutions and 3D printing.
During the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recognized a $1.1 billion tax benefit which was considered a provisional estimate under the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No. 118, which addresses how a company recognizes provisional estimates when a company does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete its accounting for the effect of the changes in the TCJA.
The measurement period ends when a company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information necessary to finalize its accounting, but cannot extend beyond one year.
We have determined that the $5.5 billion net benefit from the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, $3.2 billion of tax expense for the one-time transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the $1.2 billion of tax expense for deferred tax asset re-measurement were each provisional amounts and reasonable estimates as of January 31, 2018.
The effects of the TCJA related to these policies are referenced and discussed in detail in Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Exhibits.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
In order to address quality and security issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement effective solutions.


