fls.txt



item1.txt
Item 1.Financial Statements The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company’s consolidated financial position as of May 31, 2018, the consolidated comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, and the consolidated cash flows for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017.
However, the Company believes that the disclosures included herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and internationally.
Lucid Design Group, Inc. On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, the Company acquired all of the equity interests of Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.


item2.txt
Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”).
The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
As of May 31, 2018, the Company operates 20 manufacturing facilities and seven distribution facilities along with three warehouses to serve its extensive customer base.
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, the Company acquired IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and internationally.
On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.
No acquisitions were completed during fiscal 2017.
The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) rules and forms.


part2.txt
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Item 1a.Risk Factors Item 2.
Available borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, working capital, refinancing indebtedness under the prior Revolving Credit Facility, share repurchases, and non-hostile acquisitions.
The New Revolving Credit Facility replaced the Company's $250.0 million Revolving Credit Facility with a syndicate of banks,consisting of JP Morgan as the administrative agent and other lenders as parties thereto, which was scheduled to mature on August 27, 2019.


