fls.txt
In addition, the Company, or the executive officers on the Company’s behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents the Company files with the SEC or in connection with oral statements made to the press, current and potential investors, or others.


item1.txt
Item 1.Financial Statements The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
However, the Company believes that the disclosures included herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
There was one acquisition during the six months ended February 28, 2018.
No acquisitions occurred during fiscal 2017.
Lucid Design Group, Inc. On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Lucid Design Group, Inc. (“Lucid”).
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.
Preliminary amounts related to the acquisition accounting are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of February 28, 2018.


item2.txt
Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”).
The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
As of February 28, 2018, the Company operates 19 manufacturing facilities and seven distribution facilities along with one warehouse to serve its extensive customer base.
The Company does not consider acquisitions a critical element of its strategy but seeks opportunities to expand and enhance its portfolio of solutions, including the acquisition of Lucid Design Group, Inc. (“Lucid”) on February 12, 2018, using cash on hand.
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.
No acquisitions were completed during fiscal 2017.
The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements.
The Company currently expects to invest approximately two percent of net sales in capital expenditures during fiscal 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
As required by SEC rules, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of February 28, 2018.


part2.txt
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Item 1a.Risk Factors Item 2.
In March 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of six million shares, which includes the remaining 0.8 million shares available for repurchase under the June 2017 authorization.


