fls.txt
This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that may not materialize or prove to be correct, which could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements concerning: our plans, strategies and objectives for future operations; new products, systems, technologies, services or developments; future economic conditions, performance or outlook; future political conditions; the outcome of contingencies; the potential level of share repurchases, dividends or pension contributions; potential acquisitions or divestitures; the value of contract awards and programs; expected cash flows or capital expenditures; our beliefs or expectations; activities, events or developments that we intend, expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future; and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management’s opinions only as of the date of filing of this Report and are not guarantees of future performance or actual results.
The following are some of the factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections:
Additional details and discussions concerning some of the factors that could affect our forward-looking statements or future results are set forth in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K under Item 1A.
Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are made as of the date of filing of this Report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise.


item1.txt
Reclassifications include certain human resources and information technology (“IT”) costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
These charges are included as a component of the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted an accounting standards update issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) that requires recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Adopting this update resulted in a $27 million reduction of prepaid income tax assets from the “Other current assets” and “Other non-current assets” line items and a $27 million increase in the “Non-current deferred income taxes” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) as of September 29, 2017.
In May 2014, the FASB issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based and, consequently, entities will be required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
This update requires that entities present components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost other than the service cost component separately from the service cost component and outside the subtotal of income from operations.
(“Veritas”) of IT Services, which primarily provided IT and engineering managed services to U.S. Government customers, for net cash proceeds of $646 million, after transaction expenses and estimated purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital, and subject to post-closing finalization of those adjustments as set forth in the definitive sales agreement entered into January 26, 2017.
We recognized a pre-tax loss of $28 million on the sale of IT Services (a gain of $55 million after certain tax benefits related to the transaction or $.44 per diluted share).
We recognized a pre-tax gain of $14 million on the sale of CapRock (a gain of $61 million after certain tax benefits related to the transaction, including reversal of valuation allowances on capital losses and net operating losses, or $.49 per diluted share).
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $13 million and $24 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively, and $11 million and $21 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively.
The aggregate number of shares of our common stock that we issued under the terms of our SIPs, net of shares withheld for tax purposes and inclusive of both continuing and discontinued operations, was 67,717 and 398,932 for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively, and 191,740 and 733,953 for the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively.
Unbilled costs and accrued earnings on fixed-price contracts were net of progress payments of $113 million and $90 million at December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
We incurred $2 million of debt issuance costs related to the issuance of the Floating Rate Notes, which are being amortized using the effective interest rate method over the life of the Floating Rate Notes, and such amortization is reflected as a portion of interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).
We contributed $39 million and $103 million to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively.
Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 39.3 percent in the quarter ended December 29, 2017 compared with 30.6 percent in the quarter ended December 30, 2016.
In addition to the impacts from the Tax Act described above, our effective tax rate for the quarter ended December 29, 2017 benefited from a $22 million ($.18 per diluted share) favorable impact of releasing provisions for uncertain tax positions and the favorable impact of differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended December 30, 2016 was not impacted by any significant discrete item.
In addition to the items noted above for the quarters ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, our effective tax rate for the two quarters ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation.
We have used foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory.
The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017 or in the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016.
In addition, no amounts were recognized in earnings in the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017 or in the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016 related to hedged firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.
The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income, including gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017 or in the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016.
Estimates and assumptions, and changes therein, are important in connection with, among others, our segments’ revenue recognition policies related to development and production contracts.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized using the POC method, generally based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at completion under the contract (i.e., the “cost-to-cost” method) or the ratio of actual units delivered to estimated total units to be delivered under the contract (i.e., the “units-of-delivery” method) with consideration given for risk of performance and estimated profit.
Change orders, claims or other items that may change the scope of a development or production contract are included in contract value only when the value can be reliably estimated and realization is probable.
Possible incentives or penalties and award fees applicable to performance on development and production contracts are considered in estimating contract value and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance.
Under the POC method of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each development and production contract over its period of performance.
Recognition of profit on a fixed-price development or production contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion.
The estimated profit or loss on a development or production contract is equal to the difference between the estimated contract value and the estimated total cost at completion.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance, the risk and impact of delayed performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer and the recoverability of any claims outside the original development or production contract included in the estimate to complete.
At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing development and production contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
Additionally, at the outset of a cost-reimbursable contract (for example, contracts containing award or incentive fees), we establish an estimate of total contract value, or revenue, based on our expectation of performance on the contract.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total contract value are determined, the related impact to operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
Net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates impacted our operating income unfavorably by $10 million ($7 million after-tax or $.06 per diluted share) and favorably by $1 million in the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively, and favorably by $6 million ($4 million after-tax or $.03 per diluted share) and $19 million ($12 million after-tax or $.10 per diluted share) in the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively.
We have reviewed the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation as of December 29, 2017, and the related unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, and the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the two quarters ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016.
We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation as of June 30, 2017, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and equity for the year then ended (not presented herein) and we expressed an unqualified audit opinion on those consolidated financial statements in our report dated August 29, 2017.


item2.txt
The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
The increases in segment gross margin and gross margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 were primarily attributable to higher pension income and productivity savings.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
There can be no assurance, however, that our business will continue to generate cash flows at current levels or that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our commercial paper program or our credit facility or in the debt markets will not be impacted by any potential future credit or capital markets disruptions.
If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing.
Our ability to make principal payments or pay interest on or refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the defense, government and other markets we serve and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.
The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized using the POC method, generally based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at completion under the contract (i.e., the “cost-to-cost” method) or the ratio of actual units delivered to estimated total units to be delivered under the contract (i.e., the “units-of-delivery” method) with consideration given for risk of performance and estimated profit.
Change orders, claims or other items that may change the scope of a development or production contract are included in contract value only when the value can be reliably estimated and realization is probable.
Possible incentives or penalties and award fees applicable to performance on development and production contracts are considered in estimating contract value and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance.
Under the POC method of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each development and production contract over its period of performance.
Recognition of profit on fixed-price development and production contracts requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion.
The estimated profit or loss on a development or production contract is equal to the difference between the estimated contract value and the estimated total cost at completion.
Due to the long-term nature of many of our programs, developing the estimated total cost at completion often requires judgment.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance, the risk and impact of delayed performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer and the recoverability of any claims outside the original development or production contract included in the estimate to complete.
At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard estimate at completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing development and production contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
Additionally, at the outset of a cost-reimbursable contract (for example, contracts containing award or incentive fees), we establish an estimate of total contract value, or revenue, based on our expectation of performance on the contract.
As the cost-reimbursable contract progresses, our estimates of total contract value may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive higher or lower than expected award fees.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total contract value are determined, the related impact to operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
Anticipated losses on development and production contracts or programs in progress are charged to operating income when identified.
We have not made any material changes in the methodologies used to recognize revenue on development and production contracts or to estimate our costs related to development and production contracts in the past three fiscal years.
If we determine that individual deliverables represent separate units of accounting, we recognize the revenue associated with each unit of accounting separately, and contract revenue is allocated among the separate units of accounting at the inception of the arrangement based on relative selling price.
Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as the U.S. Government’s inability to complete its budget process and consequently having to operate pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.


item3.txt
Item 3.
Item 3.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.


part2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


