item1.txt
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on our best estimate of the consideration we expect to receive, which includes assumptions regarding variable consideration, such as award and incentive fees.
We include such estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of the good or service underlying each performance obligation.
Our contracts with the U.S. Government, including foreign military sales contracts, are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (“FAR”) and the prices of our contract deliverables are typically based on our estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
As a result, the standalone selling prices of the goods and services in these contracts are typically equal to the selling prices stated in the contract, thereby, eliminating the need to allocate (or reallocate) the transaction price to the multiple performance obligations.
Revenue for our development and production contracts is recognized over time, typically using the percentage of completion (“POC”) cost-to-cost method, whereby we measure our progress towards completion of the performance obligation based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to estimated costs at completion under the contract.
For performance obligations to provide services that are satisfied over time, we generally recognize revenue on a straight-line basis or based on the right-to-invoice method (i.e., based on our right to bill the customer).
Net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates unfavorably impacted our operating income by $3 million ($2 million after-tax or $.02 per diluted share) and favorably by $5 million ($3 million after-tax or $.02 per diluted share) for the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively.
Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was $7 million and $14 million for the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively.
Contract assets related to amounts withheld by customers until contract completion are not considered a significant financing component of our contracts because the intent is to protect the customers from our failure to satisfactorily complete our performance obligations.
Payments received from customers in advance of revenue recognition are not considered a significant financing component of our contracts because they are utilized to pay for contract costs within a one-year period or are requested by us to ensure the customers meet their payment obligations.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
We have adopted the requirements of the new standard using the full retrospective method, which means that we have restated each prior reporting period presented and recognized the cumulative effect of applying the standard at the earliest period presented.
The standard currently allows two transition methods whereby companies may elect to use the modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available, or to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $14 million and $11 million for the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively.
Receivables sold pursuant to the RSA meet the requirements for sales accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, and, accordingly, are derecognized from our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at the time of sale.
Impairment losses related to receivables from contracts with customers were not material during the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017.
Contract assets include unbilled amounts typically resulting from revenue recognized exceeding amounts billed to customers for contracts utilizing the POC cost-to-cost revenue recognition method.
Contract liabilities include advance payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized, including deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties.
Changes in contract assets and contract liabilities balances during the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were not materially impacted by any factors other than those described above.
Impairment losses related to our contract assets were not material during the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017.
For the quarter ended September 28, 2018, we recognized revenue of $158 million related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 29, 2018.
For the quarter ended September 29, 2017, we recognized revenue of $110 million related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 30, 2017.
Deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties was $16 million at September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, and is included as a component of the “Contract liabilities” and “Other long-term liabilities” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited).
As a result of this voluntary contribution as well as a $400 million voluntary contribution made during fiscal 2017, we made no contributions to our U.S. qualified benefit pension plans during the quarter ended September 28, 2018 and we currently anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to a non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2019.
Income from continuing operations per diluted common share excludes the antidilutive impact of 160,167 and 162,770 weighted average share-based awards outstanding for the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively.
In the quarter ended September 28, 2018, our effective tax rate benefited from the tax rate reduction under the Tax Act, and in the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, our effective tax rate benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, and from several differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments.
We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory.
As of September 28, 2018, we had an outstanding foreign currency forward contract denominated in the Canadian Dollar to hedge certain balance sheet items.
The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter ended September 28, 2018 or in the quarter ended September 29, 2017.
In addition, no amounts were recognized in earnings in the quarter ended September 28, 2018 or in the quarter ended September 29, 2017 related to hedged firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.
The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income, including gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in the quarter ended September 28, 2018 or in the quarter ended September 29, 2017.
The “Pension adjustment” line item in the table below represents the reconciliation of the non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, which are a component of segment operating income but are included in the "Non-operating income" line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) as a result of our adoption of ASU 2017-17 as discussed in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in these Notes.
We have reviewed the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation (the Company) as of September 28, 2018, the related condensed consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “condensed consolidated interim financial statements”).


item2.txt
The increase in gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue in all three of our segments and productivity savings, partially offset by program and business revenue mix in our Communication Systems segment.
The increase in engineering, selling and administrative (“ESA”) expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher bid and proposal and employment costs.
Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 16.0 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with 27.6 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher income from continuing operations and fewer diluted weighted average common shares outstanding due to repurchases of shares of common stock under our repurchase program during the last three quarters of fiscal 2018 and first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The increase in segment revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to growth in all three businesses that comprise our Communication Systems segment, including $38 million of higher revenue from Tactical Communications, primarily due to strong readiness demand for U.S. Department of Defense tactical radios, and higher revenue in Public Safety and Professional Communications and Night Vision.
The increase in segment gross margin and the decrease in segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily reflected higher volume and productivity savings, partially offset by program and business revenue mix.
The slight increase in segment ESA expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected cost containment despite higher revenue, resulting in a lower segment ESA percentage in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increase in segment operating income and increase in segment operating margin percentage in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increase in segment revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $32 million of higher revenue from classified programs, reflecting growth from small satellite and exquisite systems, partially offset by lower revenue from environmental programs.
The decreases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.
There can be no assurance, however, that our business will continue to generate cash flows at current levels or that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our commercial paper program or our credit facility or in the debt markets will not be impacted by any potential future credit or capital markets disruptions.
If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we used $200 million to repurchase 1,219,750 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $163.99, including commissions of $.02 per share.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we used $75 million to repurchase 617,311 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $121.51, including commissions of $.02 per share.
The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
As of September 28, 2018, we did not have material financial guarantees or other contractual commitments that we believe are reasonably likely to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we were not a party to any related party transactions that materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
In our non-U.S. Government contracts, we also generally use the expected cost plus a margin approach to determine standalone selling price.
Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as any inability of the U.S. Government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•The level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods.
•Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
If the closing conditions are not satisfied or waived, either timely or at all, the merger will be delayed or will not be completed, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.
•In connection with the merger, the combined company will have significant outstanding indebtedness, including each company’s currently outstanding indebtedness, which could adversely affect us, including by potentially lowering our credit ratings or decreasing our business flexibility, particularly if we are not able to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.
•The merger may not be as accretive to our earnings or cash flows as we expect, either as quickly or at all, and actually may be dilutive to our earnings or cash flows, particularly if we are not able to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.
•Lawsuits may be filed challenging the merger, and an adverse ruling in such lawsuits may cause the merger to be delayed or not to be completed, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.
•Uncertainties associated with the merger may adversely affect our ability and L3’s ability to attract and retain management and other key employees during the pendency of the merger and the integration period, which could adversely affect our business and operations and L3’s business and operations, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.


