item1.txt
Reclassifications include certain human resources and information technology (“IT”) costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted an accounting standards update issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) that requires recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Adopting this update resulted in a $27 million reduction of prepaid income tax assets from the “Other current assets” and “Other non-current assets” line items and a $27 million increase in the “Non-current deferred income taxes” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) as of September 29, 2017.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based and, consequently, entities will be required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
In March 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to improve the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost.
This update requires that entities present components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost other than the service cost component separately from the service cost component and outside the subtotal of income from operations.
(“Veritas”) of IT Services, which primarily provided IT and engineering managed services to U.S. Government customers, for net cash proceeds of $646 million, and recognized a pre-tax loss of $28 million (a gain of $55 million after certain tax benefits related to the transaction or $.44 per diluted share) on the sale after transaction expenses.
IT Services was part of our former Critical Networks segment and in connection with the definitive agreement to sell IT Services, as described above, the remaining operations that had been part of the Critical Networks segment, including our air traffic management (“ATM”) business, primarily serving the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), were integrated with our Electronic Systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our Critical Networks segment was eliminated.
(“SpeedCast”) of CapRock, which provided wireless, terrestrial and satellite communications services to energy and maritime customers, for net cash proceeds of $368 million, and recognized a pre-tax gain of $14 million ($61 million after certain tax benefits related to the transaction, including reversal of valuation allowances on capital losses and net operating losses, or $.49 per diluted share) on the sale after transaction expenses and purchase adjustments in respect of net cash and net working capital as set forth in the definitive sales agreement entered into November 1, 2016.
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $13 million and $37 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively, and $12 million and $32 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 31, 2017, respectively.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, we recorded $45 million of charges in connection with our decision to transition and exit a commercial line of business that had been developing an air-to-ground radio access network for the business aviation market based on the Long Term Evolution (“LTE”) standard operating in the unlicensed spectrum.
We incurred $2 million of debt issuance costs related to the issuance of the Floating Rate Notes 2019, which are being amortized using the effective interest rate method over the life of the Floating Rate Notes 2019, and such amortization is reflected as a portion of interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).
We used the net proceeds from the sale of the Floating Rate Notes 2019 to make a voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans during the quarter ended March 30, 2018.
In connection with the closing of the sale of the Floating Rate Notes 2020, we used the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay in full the $253 million in remaining outstanding indebtedness under the 5-year tranche of our $1.3 billion senior unsecured term loan facility pursuant to our Term Loan Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2015, and recognized a $1 million extinguishment loss, which is included as a component of the “Non-operating income (loss)” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited), as a result of associated unamortized debt issuance costs.
We contributed $301 million to our qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, including a $300 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans.
As a result of this voluntary contribution as well as the $400 million voluntary contribution made during the quarter ended June 30, 2017, we currently anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2018.
Income from continuing operations per diluted common share excludes the antidilutive impact of 30,670 and 64,554 weighted average share-based awards outstanding in the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively, and 562,010 in the three quarters ended March 31, 2017.
•$52 million ($.43 per diluted share) from estimated write-down of existing net deferred tax asset balances based on the lower tax rate and other law changes; and
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, we changed our estimated write-down of existing net deferred tax asset balances associated with the Tax Act to $19 million ($.15 per diluted share) and recognized an income tax benefit of $33 million ($.27 per diluted share) to adjust the provisional amount recorded in connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the quarter ended December 29, 2017.
This adjustment was primarily due to revaluing our deferred tax asset related to our $300 million voluntary pension contribution made during the quarter ended March 30, 2018.
In addition to the impact of the Tax Act described above, our effective tax rate for the three quarters ended March 30, 2018 benefited from a $22 million ($.18 per diluted share) favorable impact of releasing provisions for uncertain tax positions, the favorable impact of differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments and the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation.
In the three quarters ended March 31, 2017, our effective tax rate was impacted by the discrete items noted above favorably impacting the quarter ended March 31, 2017.
We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory.
The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018 or in the quarter and three quarters ended March 31, 2017.
The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income, including gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018 or in the quarter and three quarters ended March 31, 2017.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized using the POC method, generally based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at completion under the contract (i.e., the “cost-to-cost” method) or the ratio of actual units delivered to estimated total units to be delivered under the contract (i.e., the “units-of-delivery” method) with consideration given for risk of performance and estimated profit.
Possible incentives or penalties and award fees applicable to performance on development and production contracts are considered in estimating contract value and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance.
Under the POC method of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each development and production contract over its period of performance.
Recognition of profit on a fixed-price development or production contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion.
The estimated profit or loss on a development or production contract is equal to the difference between the estimated contract value and the estimated total cost at completion.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance, the risk and impact of delayed performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer and the recoverability of any claims outside the original development or production contract included in the estimate to complete.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing development and production contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
Additionally, at the outset of a cost-reimbursable contract (for example, contracts containing award or incentive fees), we establish an estimate of total contract value, or revenue, based on our expectation of performance on the contract.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total contract value are determined, the related impact to operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
Net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates impacted our operating income favorably by $5 million ($4 million after-tax or $.03 per diluted share) and $6 million ($4 million after-tax or $.04 per diluted share) in the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively, and favorably by $11 million ($6 million after-tax or $.05 per diluted share) and $30 million ($19 million after-tax or $.14 per diluted share) in the quarter and three quarters ended March 31, 2017, respectively.
We have reviewed the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation as of March 30, 2018, and the related unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017, and the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three quarters ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation as of June 30, 2017, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and equity for the year then ended (not presented herein) and we expressed an unqualified audit opinion on those consolidated financial statements in our report dated August 29, 2017.
We face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the IT networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information.
As an advanced technology-based solutions provider, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers’ proprietary or classified information on our IT networks and related systems and to the IT networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers.


item2.txt
The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in revenue.
Segment gross margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was comparable with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 as the impact of a less favorable mix of program and product sales was offset by productivity savings.
The increase in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher employment and distribution costs.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
Segment gross margin percentage for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 decreased slightly compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 primarily due to a less favorable mix of program revenue and product sales, mostly offset by productivity savings.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
The increases in segment gross margin and gross margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to higher revenue, incremental pension income and a more favorable mix of program revenue.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
business in the quarter ended March 30, 2018, and a $12 million non-cash charge from an adjustment for deferred compensation in the quarter ended December 29, 2017, partially offset by the absence in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 of any Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $38 million in the first three quarters of fiscal 2017.
Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.
If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing.
The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed the issuance and sale of $250 million in aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020 and used the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay in full the $253 million in remaining outstanding indebtedness under the 5-year tranche of our $1.3 billion senior unsecured term loan facility pursuant to our Term Loan Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2015.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed the issuance and sale of $300 million in aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due February 27, 2019 and used the proceeds to make a voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized using the POC method, generally based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at completion under the contract (i.e., the “cost-to-cost” method) or the ratio of actual units delivered to estimated total units to be delivered under the contract (i.e., the “units-of-delivery” method) with consideration given for risk of performance and estimated profit.
Possible incentives or penalties and award fees applicable to performance on development and production contracts are considered in estimating contract value and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance.
Under the POC method of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each development and production contract over its period of performance.
Recognition of profit on fixed-price development and production contracts requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion.
The estimated profit or loss on a development or production contract is equal to the difference between the estimated contract value and the estimated total cost at completion.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance, the risk and impact of delayed performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer and the recoverability of any claims outside the original development or production contract included in the estimate to complete.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard estimate at completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing development and production contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
Additionally, at the outset of a cost-reimbursable contract (for example, contracts containing award or incentive fees), we establish an estimate of total contract value, or revenue, based on our expectation of performance on the contract.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total contract value are determined, the related impact to operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
We have not made any material changes in the methodologies used to recognize revenue on development and production contracts or to estimate our costs related to development and production contracts in the past three fiscal years.
Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as the U.S. Government’s inability to complete its budget process and consequently having to operate pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


