item1.txt
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
Companies may elect to use the modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements or to initially apply this standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
Although we are continuing to evaluate the impact to our consolidated balance sheet of recognizing right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for the majority of our current lease obligations, which could be material, we do not expect this standard to have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows.
During the two quarters ended December 28, 2018, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”).
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $15 million and $29 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and $13 million and $24 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
Impairment losses related to receivables from contracts with customers were not material during the quarter or two quarters ended December 28, 2018 or the quarter or two quarters ended December 29, 2017.
Impairment losses related to our contract assets were not material during the two quarters ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017.
For the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, we recognized revenue of $49 million and $207 million, respectively, related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 29, 2018.
For the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, we recognized revenue of $53 million and $163 million, respectively, related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 30, 2017.
Costs of warranty services under these arrangements are recognized as incurred and are included as a component of the “Contract liabilities” and “Other long-term liabilities” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited).
As a result of this voluntary contribution as well as a $400 million voluntary contribution made during fiscal 2017, we made no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, and we currently anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to a non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2019.
Income from continuing operations per diluted common share excludes the antidilutive impact of 399,243 and 279,705 weighted average share-based awards outstanding for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and 222 and 81,496 weighted average share-based awards outstanding for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
In addition to the items noted above for the quarters ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017, our effective tax rate for the two quarters ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation.
We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory.
At December 28, 2018, we had an outstanding foreign currency forward contract denominated in the Canadian Dollar to hedge a certain balance sheet item.
The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter or two quarters ended December 28, 2018 or in the quarter or two quarters ended December 29, 2017.
The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income, including gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in the quarter or two quarters ended December 28, 2018 or in the quarter or two quarters ended December 29, 2017.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the total transaction price include contractual cost or performance incentives (such as incentive fees, award fees and penalties) and other forms of variable consideration as well as our historical experience and expectation for performance on the contract.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total transaction price are determined, the related impact on operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
Net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates impacted our operating income favorably by $2 million ($.02 per diluted share) and unfavorably by $1 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and unfavorably by $16 million ($11 million after-tax or $.09 per diluted share) and $11 million ($8 million after-tax or $.06 per diluted share) for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was $9 million and $16 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and $16 million and $30 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
The “Pension adjustment” line item in the table below represents the reconciliation of the non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, which are a component of segment operating income but are included in the “Non-operating income” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) as a result of our adoption of ASU 2017-07 as discussed in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in these Notes.
In connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in these Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against L3 and its directors (together, the “L3 Parties”) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v.
As part of the DOJ’s review of the merger, we and L3 each received on January 10, 2019 a request for additional information and documentary materials (the “Second Request”) from the DOJ, which extends the waiting period under the HSR Act until 30 days after both we and L3 have complied with the Second Request or such later time as the parties may agree with the DOJ, unless the waiting period is terminated earlier.
The assets and liabilities of our Night Vision business were classified as held for use in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at December 28, 2018 and will continue to be so classified unless the held for sale criteria are met, which has not occurred as of the date of this Report, because our Board of Directors has not approved commitment to any plan of sale.
The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby is not complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by reference to, the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 12, 2018, by and among L3, us, and Merger Sub, a copy of which was filed as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 16, 2018.
We have reviewed the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation (the Company) as of December 28, 2018, the related condensed consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, and equity for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017, the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the two quarters ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “condensed consolidated interim financial statements”).
As described in Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies in the Notes, in connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against the L3 Parties in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v.
•The market price for shares of common stock of the combined company following the completion of the merger may be affected by factors different from, or in addition to, those that historically have affected or currently affect the market prices of shares of our common stock and L3 common stock.
•The shares of common stock of the combined company to be received by L3 stockholders as a result of the merger will have rights different from the shares of L3 common stock.
•Until the completion of the merger or the termination of the merger agreement in accordance with its terms, we and L3 are each prohibited from entering into certain transactions and taking certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to us or L3 and our respective stockholders.
•The combined company may be unable to retain our and L3 personnel successfully after the merger is completed.


item2.txt
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increase in segment operating income in the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and comparability of segment operating margin percentage reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties (including the recent, or any potential successive, U.S. Government shutdown) and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.
There can be no assurance, however, that our business will continue to generate cash flows at current levels or that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our commercial paper program or our credit facility or in the debt markets will not be impacted by any potential future credit or capital markets disruptions.
If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing.
During the first two quarters of fiscal 2019, we used $200 million to repurchase 1,219,750 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $163.99, including commissions of $.02 per share.
The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
As of December 28, 2018, we did not have material financial guarantees or other contractual commitments that we believe are reasonably likely to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we were not a party to any related party transactions that materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
In connection with the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, we have a contractual obligation to issue 1.30 shares of our common stock for each share of L3 common stock outstanding at closing of the pending merger, and we expect to incur other expenses, such as transaction costs, other payments required as a result of the merger and integration and post-closing restructuring costs.
Our contracts with the U.S. Government, including foreign military sales contracts, are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations and the prices of our contract deliverables are typically based on our estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as any inability of the U.S. Government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•The level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.


part2.txt
As described in Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies in the Notes, in connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against the L3 Parties in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v.
The complaints in the lawsuits contain substantially similar allegations contending, among other things, that the registration statement on Form S-4 in support of the pending merger misstates or fails to disclose certain allegedly material information in violation of federal securities laws.
•The market price for shares of common stock of the combined company following the completion of the merger may be affected by factors different from, or in addition to, those that historically have affected or currently affect the market prices of shares of our common stock and L3 common stock.
•The shares of common stock of the combined company to be received by L3 stockholders as a result of the merger will have rights different from the shares of L3 common stock.
•Until the completion of the merger or the termination of the merger agreement in accordance with its terms, we and L3 are each prohibited from entering into certain transactions and taking certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to us or L3 and our respective stockholders.
•The termination of the merger agreement could negatively impact us or L3.
•Litigation filed against the L3 Parties and the Harris Parties could prevent or delay the consummation of the merger or result in the payment of damages following completion of the merger.
•Our and L3’s unaudited prospective financial information is inherently subject to uncertainties, the unaudited pro forma financial data included in our Form S-4 registration statement related to the proposed merger is preliminary and the combined company’s actual financial position and results of operations after the merger may differ materially from those estimates and the unaudited pro forma financial data included in such registration statement.
•The combined company may be unable to retain our and L3 personnel successfully after the merger is completed.


