item1.txt
The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
Companies may elect to use the modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements or to initially apply this standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
During the three quarters ended March 29, 2019, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”).
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $14 million and $43 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $13 million and $37 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
Impairment losses related to receivables from contracts with customers were not material during the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018.
Contract assets include unbilled amounts typically resulting from revenue recognized exceeding amounts billed to customers for contracts utilizing the percentage of completion (“POC”) cost-to-cost revenue recognition method.
Changes in contract assets and contract liabilities balances during the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019 were not materially impacted by any factors other than those described above.
For the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, we recognized revenue of $52 million and $259 million, respectively, related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 29, 2018.
For the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, we recognized revenue of $24 million and $187 million, respectively, related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 30, 2017.
In the quarter ended March 29, 2019, our effective tax rate benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation and from favorable adjustments recorded upon the filing of our Federal tax returns.
In the quarter ended March 30, 2018, our effective tax rate benefited from a $33 million ($.27 per diluted share) adjustment to the provisional amount recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to revalue our net deferred tax balances as a result of the Tax Act. Additionally, our effective tax rate for the quarter ended March 30, 2018 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation.
Additionally, during January 2019, we entered into a yield-based treasury lock agreement with a third-party financial institution counterparty (“treasury lock”) to hedge against fluctuations in interest payments due to changes in the benchmark interest rate (10-year U.S. Treasury rate) associated with our anticipated issuance of long-term fixed-rate notes (“New Notes”) to redeem or repay at maturity the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.7% Notes due April 27, 2020 (“2020 Notes”).
We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory.
At March 29, 2019, we had an outstanding foreign currency forward contract denominated in the Canadian Dollar to hedge a certain balance sheet item.
The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or in the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018.
In addition, no amounts were recognized in earnings in the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or in the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018 related to hedged firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.
The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income, including gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or in the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018.
At March 29, 2019, the fair value of the treasury lock was a liability of $11 million, which we recorded in the “Other accrued items” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) with a corresponding unrealized after-tax loss of $8 million in the “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) representing the effective portion of the treasury lock’s change in fair value during the quarter ended March 29, 2019.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the total transaction price include contractual cost or performance incentives (such as incentive fees, award fees and penalties) and other forms of variable consideration as well as our historical experience and expectation for performance on the contract.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total transaction price are determined, the related impact on operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
Net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates impacted our operating income favorably by $6 million ($4 million after-tax or $.03 per diluted share) and $5 million ($4 million after-tax or $.03 per diluted share) for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and unfavorably by $4 million ($3 million after-tax or $.02 per diluted share) and $15 million ($11 million after-tax or $.09 per diluted share) for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was $18 million and $34 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $5 million and $35 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
The “Pension adjustment” line item in the table below represents the reconciliation of the non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, which are a component of segment operating income but are included in the “Non-operating income” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) as a result of our adoption of ASU 2017-07 as discussed in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in these Notes.
In connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in these Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against L3 and its directors (together, the “L3 Parties”) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v.
On March 12, 2019, the parties to the actions entered into an agreement to settle all claims that were or could have been alleged in the action subject to, among other things, the supplementation by L3 of certain disclosures contained in the registration statement, which were reflected in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by L3 with the SEC on March 13, 2019, and the dismissal of the four lawsuits, all of which were dismissed by March 18, 2019.
The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby is not complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by reference to, the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 12, 2018, by and among L3, us, and Merger Sub, a copy of which was filed as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 16, 2018.
The sale transaction is conditioned on completion of our pending merger with L3 pursuant to the Merger Agreement, as well as customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals.
Because the sale transaction is conditioned on completion of our pending merger with L3, the assets and liabilities of our Night Vision business were not classified as held for sale in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at March 29, 2019.
We have reviewed the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation (the Company) as of March 29, 2019, the related condensed consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, and equity for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “condensed consolidated interim financial statements”).
As described in Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies in the Notes, in connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against the L3 Parties in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v.
On March 12, 2019, the parties to the actions entered into an agreement to settle all claims that were or could have been alleged in the action subject to, among other things, the supplementation by L3 of certain disclosures contained in the registration statement, which were reflected in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by L3 with the SEC on March 13, 2019, and the dismissal of the four lawsuits, all of which were dismissed by March 18, 2019.
•The market price for shares of common stock of the combined company following the completion of the merger may be affected by factors different from, or in addition to, those that historically have affected or currently affect the market prices of shares of our common stock and L3 common stock.
•The shares of common stock of the combined company to be received by L3 stockholders as a result of the merger will have rights different from the shares of L3 common stock.
•Until the completion of the merger or the termination of the merger agreement in accordance with its terms, we and L3 are each prohibited from entering into certain transactions and taking certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to us or L3 and our respective stockholders.


item2.txt
The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher volume and operational efficiencies, partially offset by program and product mix.
Segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to program and product mix.
The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increase in segment operating income and slight decrease of segment operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties (including the recent, or any potential successive, U.S. Government shutdown) and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.
There can be no assurance, however, that our business will continue to generate cash flows at current levels or that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our commercial paper program or our credit facility or in the debt markets will not be impacted by any potential future credit or capital markets disruptions.
If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing.
During the first three quarters of fiscal 2019, we used $200 million to repurchase 1,219,750 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $163.99, including commissions of $.02 per share.
first three quarters of fiscal 2018, we used $197 million to repurchase 1,466,713 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $134.36, including commissions of $.01 per share.
The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
In connection with the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, we have a contractual obligation to issue 1.30 shares of our common stock for each share of L3 common stock outstanding at closing of the pending merger, and we expect to incur other expenses, such as transaction costs, other payments required as a result of the merger and integration and post-closing restructuring costs.
In our non-U.S. Government contracts, we also generally use the expected cost plus a margin approach to determine standalone selling price.
Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as any inability of the U.S. Government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•The level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods.


item3.txt
These debt obligations bear interest that is variable based on certain short-term indices, thus exposing us to interest-rate risk; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for these debt obligations at March 29, 2019 
We utilize derivative instruments, from time to time, to mitigate interest rate risk associated with anticipated debt transactions.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.


part2.txt
As described in Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies in the Notes, in connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against the L3 Parties in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v.
•The market price for shares of common stock of the combined company following the completion of the merger may be affected by factors different from, or in addition to, those that historically have affected or currently affect the market prices of shares of our common stock and L3 common stock.
•The shares of common stock of the combined company to be received by L3 stockholders as a result of the merger will have rights different from the shares of L3 common stock.
•Until the completion of the merger or the termination of the merger agreement in accordance with its terms, we and L3 are each prohibited from entering into certain transactions and taking certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to us or L3 and our respective stockholders.
•The termination of the merger agreement could negatively impact us or L3.
•Litigation filed against the L3 Parties and the Harris Parties could prevent or delay the consummation of the merger or result in the payment of damages following completion of the merger.
•Our and L3’s unaudited prospective financial information is inherently subject to uncertainties, the unaudited pro forma financial data included in our Form S-4 registration statement related to the proposed merger is preliminary and the combined company’s actual financial position and results of operations after the merger may differ materially from those estimates and the unaudited pro forma financial data included in such registration statement.
•The combined company may be unable to retain our and L3 personnel successfully after the merger is completed.


