fls.txt



item1.txt
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
2015‑11, “Inventory (Topic 330) - Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory” (“ASU 2015‑11”), which dictates that an entity should measure inventory within the scope of this update at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
These acquisitions are primarily intended to help meet the evolving needs of customers, while driving long-term growth for the Company's existing data center and client solution products over the long term.
The aggregate purchase price of acquisitions during the nine months ended March 30, 2018 was $99 million in cash, with net assets acquired primarily consisting of developed technology and other intangible assets, of which $61 million was allocated to goodwill.
Goodwill is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from diversifying product offerings to its Data Center Devices and Solutions and Client Solutions end markets as well as the acquired workforce.
During the nine months ended March 30, 2018, the expenses incurred by the Company related to these acquisitions were immaterial and are primarily included within Selling, General and Administrative expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Level 2.Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
The carrying value of the Company’s revolving credit facility approximates its fair value given the revolving nature of the balance and the variable market interest rate.
For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments.
Each of the financial instruments presented below was categorized as Level 2 for all periods presented, based on the frequency of trading immediately prior to the end of the third quarter of 2018 and the fourth quarter of 2017, respectively.
During the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company recorded impairment charges and losses related to the sale of these cost method investments of $9 million and $15 million, respectively, which were included in Other expense, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
During the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges and losses related to the sale of these cost method investments of $7 million and $11 million, respectively.
The Company determined the ineffective portion and the amount excluded for effectiveness testing associated with its cash flow hedges to be immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
A change in the fair value of non-designated hedges is recognized in earnings in the period incurred and is reported as a component of Other expense, net.


item2.txt
Term Loan B-3”) at an interest rate lower than our U.S. •In February 2018, we made a voluntary partial prepayment of $500 million of the U.S. •In February and March 2018, we completed the redemption of all of our outstanding 7.375% senior secured notes due 2023 in the aggregate principal amount of $1.875 billion (the “2023 Notes”) and the tender offer and redemption and settlement of all of our outstanding 10.500% senior unsecured notes due 2024 in the aggregate principal amount of $3.350 billion (the “2024 Notes” and collectively with the 2023 Notes, the “Existing Notes”).
For additional information regarding our debt facilities, see Part I, Item 1, Note 6, Debt, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
For additional information regarding the 2017 Act, see Part I, Item 1, Note 10, Income Tax Expense (Benefit), of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The risks and uncertainties discussed below update and supersede the risks and uncertainties previously disclosed in Part II, Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 29, 2017.
Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”) or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products.
In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk from time to time by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances.
As a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable.
Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, TMC, to develop and manufacture NAND-flash memory products for our NAND-flash memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of SanDisk Corporation (“SanDisk”) in May 2016, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger”), is dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
Over-investment could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete or lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in Flash Ventures.
If our NAND memory supply is limited, we may make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, and these strategic allocation decisions may result in less favorable gross margin in the short term or damage certain customer relationships.
Growth of our NAND-flash memory bit supply at a slower rate than the overall industry for an extended period of time would result in lowering our share, which could limit our future opportunities and harm our financial results.
In addition, we partner with TMC on the development of NAND-flash technology, including the next technology transitions of NAND-flash, as well as other non-volatile memory technology in support of Flash Ventures.


