fls.txt



item1.txt
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
2015‑11, “Inventory (Topic 330) - Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory” (“ASU 2015‑11”), which dictates that an entity should measure inventory within the scope of this update at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
These acquisitions are primarily intended to help meet the evolving needs of customers, while driving long-term growth for the Company's existing data center and client solution products over the long term.
The aggregate purchase price of acquisitions during the six months ended December 29, 2017 was $99 million in cash, with net assets acquired primarily consisting of developed technology and other intangibles assets, of which $61 million was allocated to goodwill.
Goodwill is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from diversifying product offerings to its Data Center Devices and Solutions and Client Solutions end markets as well as the acquired workforce.
During the six months ended December 29, 2017, the Company incurred $6 million of transaction expenses related to these acquisitions, which are primarily included within Selling, General and Administrative expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Level 2.Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments.
Each of the financial instruments presented below was categorized as Level 2 for all periods presented, based on the frequency of trading immediately prior to the end of the second quarter of 2018 and the fourth quarter of 2017, respectively.
There were no impairment charges during the three months ended December 29, 2017 and $6 million of impairment charges for the six months ended December 29, 2017, which were included in Other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company determined the ineffectiveness associated with its cash flow hedges to be immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016.
As of December 29, 2017, the amount of existing net gains related to cash flow hedges recorded in AOCI that are expected to be reclassified into earnings over the next twelve months was $8 million.
A change in the fair value of non-designated hedges is recognized in earnings in the period incurred and is reported as a component of Other income (expense), net.
The changes in fair value on these contracts were immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016.


item2.txt
In connection with the Refinancing Transactions, we have announced that we intend to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock in privately negotiated or open market transactions.
Since December 29, 2017, we have repurchased approximately $151 million of our common stock in privately negotiated transactions, at a purchase price per share equal to $87.08 per share, with available cash on hand.
For additional information regarding the 2017 Act, see Part I, Item 1, Note 10, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The risks and uncertainties discussed below update and supersede the risks and uncertainties previously disclosed in Part II, Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 29, 2017.
If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue.
Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”), or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products.
In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk from time to time by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances.
As a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable.
Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, TMC, to develop and manufacture NAND-flash memory products for our NAND-flash memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of SanDisk Corporation (“SanDisk”) in May 2016, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger”), is dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
Over-investment could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete or lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in Flash Ventures.
If our NAND memory supply is limited, we may make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, and these strategic allocation decisions may result in less favorable gross margin in the short term or damage certain customer relationships.
Growth of our NAND-flash memory bit supply at a slower rate than the overall industry for an extended period of time would result in lowering our share which could limit our future opportunities and harm our financial results.


