You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
•Our expectation that our days of inventory levels will increase modestly in the March 2018 quarter.
•That our U.S. operations and capital requirements are funded primarily by cash generated from U.S. operating activities, which has been and is expected to be sufficient to meet our business needs in the U.S. for the foreseeable future;
•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications.
Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including general purpose and specialized microcontrollers, development tools and related software, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, wired and wireless connectivity products, memory products and technology licensing.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.
We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries.
The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, office communication, computing and aerospace.
Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe and assembly and test.
The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry.
By owning wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields.
Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles.
This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and the assembly and test profit margin.
We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our embedded control products.
While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products.
This allows us to more fully leverage our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly.
We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.
We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position.
Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory, analog and mixed-signal products, Flash-IP systems, development systems, software and application-specific software libraries.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, business combinations, share-based compensation, inventories, income taxes, senior and junior subordinated convertible debt and contingencies.
We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis.
We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies, such as our policy regarding revenue recognition to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs); however, we do not believe these policies require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult or subjective as our policies described below.
Our distributors worldwide generally have broad price protection and product return rights which prevent the sales pricing from being fixed or determinable at the time of shipment to our distributors.
Therefore, revenue recognition is deferred until the pricing uncertainty is resolved, which generally occurs when the distributor sells the product to their customer.
At the time of shipment to these distributors, we record a trade receivable for the selling price as there is a legally enforceable right to payment, relieve inventory for the carrying value of goods shipped since legal title has passed to the distributor, and record the gross margin in deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Following an acquisition, we undertake efforts to align the contract terms and business practices of the acquired entity with our own.
Once these efforts are complete, revenue recognition is changed.
With respect to such distributor relationships acquired in the Atmel acquisition, as of October 1, 2016, these business practices were conformed to those of our other distributors resulting in the deferral of revenue recognition until the distributor sells the product to their customers.
Deferred income on shipments to distributors effectively represents the gross margin on the sale to the distributor; however, the amount of gross margin that we recognize in future periods could be less than the deferred margin as a result of credits granted to distributors on specifically identified products and customers to allow the distributors to earn a competitive gross margin on the sale of our products to their end customers and price protection concessions related to market pricing conditions.
We sell the majority of the items in our product catalog to our distributors worldwide at a uniform list price.
However, distributors resell our products to end customers at a broad range of individually negotiated price points.
The majority of our distributors' resales require a reduction from the original list price paid.
Often, under these circumstances, we remit back to the distributor a portion of their original purchase price after the resale transaction is completed in the form of a credit against the distributors' outstanding accounts receivable balance.
The credits are on a per unit basis and are not given to the distributor until they provide information to us regarding the sale to their end customer.
Discounts to a price less than our cost have historically been rare.
The effect of granting these credits establishes the net selling price to our distributors for the product and results in the net revenue recognized by us when the product is sold by the distributors to their end customers.
At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $472.7 million of deferred revenue and $137.0 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $335.7 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors.
At March 31, 2017, we had approximately $418.0 million of deferred revenue and $125.2 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $292.8 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors.
The deferred income on shipments to distributors that will ultimately be recognized in our income statement will be lower than the amount reflected on the balance sheet due to additional price credits to be granted to the distributors when the product is sold to their customers.
These additional price credits historically have resulted in the deferred income approximating the overall gross margins that we recognize in the distribution channel of our business.
Distributor advances, reflected as a reduction of deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, totaled $194.2 million at December 31, 2017 and $203.9 million at March 31, 2017.
On sales to distributors, our payment terms generally require the distributor to settle amounts owed to us for an amount in excess of their ultimate cost.
It is our practice to apply these negotiated price discounts to future purchases, requiring the distributor to settle receivable balances, on a current basis, generally within 30 days, for amounts originally invoiced.
This practice has an adverse impact on the working capital of our distributors.
As such, we have entered into agreements with certain distributors whereby we advance cash to the distributors to reduce the distributors' working capital requirements.
These advances are reconciled at least on a quarterly basis and are estimated based on the amount of ending inventory as reported by the distributor multiplied by a negotiated percentage.
The terms of these advances are set forth in binding legal agreements and are unsecured, bear no interest on unsettled balances and are due upon demand.
The agreements governing these advances can be canceled by us at any time.
We reduce product pricing through price protection based on market conditions, competitive considerations and other factors.
When we reduce the price of our products, it allows the distributor to claim a credit against its outstanding accounts receivable balances based on the new price of the inventory it has on hand as of the date of the price reduction.
We routinely evaluate the risk of impairment of the deferred cost of sales component of the deferred income on shipments to distributors account.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09-Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and in August 2015, the FASB subsequently issued ASU 2015-14 "Deferral of the Effective Date," which supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance pursuant to US GAAP and will no longer permit us to defer revenue on sales to distributors until the products are sold to the end customer.
Upon our adoption of ASU 2014-09 and 2015-14 beginning April 1, 2018, we will be required to recognize revenue at the time of shipment to the distributors.
The amount of revenue recognized will be adjusted for estimates of returns and allowances provided to distributors.
See Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information on the new guidance.
We measure at fair value and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values.
For the past several years, we have utilized RSUs as our primary equity incentive compensation instrument for employees.
Share-based compensation cost is measured on the grant date based on the fair market value of our common stock discounted for expected future dividends and is recognized as expense straight-line over the requisite service periods.
Total share-based compensation during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was $70.0 million, of which $59.4 million was reflected in operating expenses and $10.6 million was reflected in cost of sales.
Total share-based compensation included in our inventory balance was $7.9 million at December 31, 2017.
During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we elected to early adopt ASU 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (Topic 718).
We have elected to recognize forfeitures as they occur.
If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense.
Future share-based compensation expense and unearned share-based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or we assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value using the first-in, first-out method.
We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required.
Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable.
In estimating our inventory obsolescence, we primarily evaluate estimates of demand over a 12-month period and record impairment charges for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12-month demand.
Estimates for projected 12-month demand are generally based on the average shipments of the prior three-month period, which are then annualized to adjust for any potential seasonality in our business.
The estimated 12-month demand is compared to our most recently developed sales forecast to further reconcile the 12-month demand estimate.
Management reviews and adjusts the estimates as appropriate based on specific situations.
For example, demand can be adjusted up for new products for which historic sales are not representative of future demand.
Alternatively, demand can be adjusted down to the extent any existing products are being replaced or discontinued.
Due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act"), we released our valuation allowance on foreign tax credits during the period ending December 31, 2017.
Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.
At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.
If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary.
The recognition requirement for the liability exists even if we believe the possibility of examination by a taxing authority or discovery of the related risk matters is remote or where we have a long history of the taxing authority not performing an exam or overlooking an issue.
We will record an adjustment to a previously recorded position if new information or facts related to the position are identified in a subsequent period.
All adjustments to the positions are recorded through the income statement.
Generally, adjustments will be recorded in periods subsequent to the initial recognition if the taxing authority has completed an audit of the period or if the statute of limitation expires.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in the estimation process and in consideration of the criteria of the accounting model, amounts recognized in the financial statements in periods subsequent to the initial recognition may significantly differ from the estimated exposure of the position under the accounting model.
As a fiscal year-end taxpayer, certain provisions of the Act began to impact us in our third quarter of fiscal 2018, while other provisions will impact us beginning in fiscal 2019.
The corporate tax rate reduction is effective as of January 1, 2018.
As a result, our fiscal 2018 federal statutory rate will be a blended rate of 31.5%.
Due to the complexity of the new tax on low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries, we are continuing to evaluate this provision of the Act and the application of ASC 740.
Our selection of an accounting policy will depend, in part, on analyzing our facts to determine what the impact is expected to be under each method.
We separately account for the liability and equity components of our senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt (unsecured debt) borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized.
This results in a bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity and the accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to be recognized as part of interest expense in our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Lastly, we include the dilutive effect of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in our diluted income per share calculation regardless of whether the market price triggers or other contingent conversion features have been met.
This method results in incremental dilutive shares when the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the conversion prices per share and adjusts as dividends are recorded in the future.
Additionally, we are involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant.
Consequently, we could incur uninsured liability in any of those actions.
Litigation and disputes relating to the semiconductor industry are not uncommon, and we are, from time to time, subject to such litigation and disputes.
As a result, no assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation or disputes in the future.
We accrue for claims and contingencies when losses become probable and reasonably estimable.
Where we can reasonably estimate a range of losses we may incur regarding such a matter, we record an accrual for the amount within the range that constitutes our best estimate.
If we can reasonably estimate a range but no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other, we use the amount that is the low end of such range.
Contingencies of an acquired company that exist as of the date of the acquisition are measured at fair value if determinable, which generally is based on a probability weighted model.
If fair value is not determinable, contingencies of an acquired company are recognized when they become probable and reasonably estimable.
We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of our SuperFlash and other technologies.
We sell our products to distributors and original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, in a broad range of markets, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral.
In certain circumstances, a customer's financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be typically provided by letters of credit.
Our net sales for the quarter ended December 31, 2017 were $994.2 million, a decrease of 1.8% from the previous quarter's net sales of $1,012.1 million.
The decrease in net sales in the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was primarily due to the impact of seasonality on our business.
•The impact of the change in timing of revenue recognition for some of Atmel's distributors from shipment to the distributor to upon sale by the distributor to their customers.
Excluding the impact of these two accounting factors, net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the same periods in the prior year increased 12.8% and 15.0%, respectively.
Approximately 7% and 5% of the respective increases in net sales during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016 were due to increases in the average price of products sold as a result of favorable market conditions and product mix.
The remaining sales growth was primarily due to a net increase in the volume of products sold.
•continued market share gains in the segments of the markets we address.
Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales.
Net sales of our microcontroller products increased 27.9% and 25.2% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016.
Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.
The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to the proprietary nature of these products.
We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, moderate pricing pressure in certain microcontroller product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions.
Sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products accounted for approximately 23.3% and 23.8% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to approximately 26.5% and 26.3% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, respectively.
Net sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products increased 4.7% and 7.8% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016.
Analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in nature.
Currently, we consider a majority of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products.
We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products will increase over time.
Sales of our memory products accounted for approximately 4.8% and 5.0% of our net sales for the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to approximately 5.5% of our net sales for each of the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2016, respectively.
Net sales of our memory products increased 4.2% and 8.0% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016.
We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory products.
Technology licensing accounted for approximately 2.8% and 2.6% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to approximately 2.9% and 2.7% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, respectively.
Multi-market and Other (MMO) consists of manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application specific integrated circuits, complex programmable logic devices, and aerospace products.
Revenue from these services and products accounted for approximately 2.6% and 2.7% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to approximately 3.2% and 2.9% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, respectively.
MMO net sales can fluctuate over time based on changes in demand for our manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting) as well as general economic and semiconductor industry conditions.
Distributors accounted for approximately 53.7% of our net sales in the three months ended December 31, 2017 and approximately 52.6% of our net sales in the three months ended December 31, 2016.
Distributors accounted for approximately 54.2% of our net sales in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and approximately 54.9% of our net sales in the nine months ended December 31, 2016.
Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers.
We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base.
We believe that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel.
Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advance notice.
At December 31, 2017, our distributors maintained 34 days of inventory of our products compared to 33 days of inventory at our distributors at March 31, 2017.
Over the past five fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between 30 days and 37 days.
will materially impact our net sales prior to the adoption of ASU 2014-09-Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as we do not recognize revenue until the inventory is sold by the distributors.
Upon our adoption of ASC 606 commencing on April 1, 2018, we will be required to recognize revenue from distributors at the time our products are sold to the distributor.
Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America.
Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 85% of our total net sales in each of the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to approximately 83% and 84% of our total net sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, respectively.
Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated.
Sales to customers in Asia have generally increased over time due to many of our customers transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia and growth in demand from the emerging Asian market.
Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia.
Our gross profit in the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $607.1 million, or 61.1% of net sales, compared to $465.3 million, or 55.8% of net sales, in the three months ended December 31, 2016.
Our gross profit in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was $1,805.6 million, or 60.6% of net sales, compared to $1,224.4 million, or 48.9% of net sales, in the nine months ended December 31, 2016.
•charges of approximately $12.0 million and $186.7 million in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, respectively, related to the recognition of acquired inventory at fair value as a result of our acquisitions which increased the value of our acquired inventory and subsequently increased our cost of sales and reduced our gross margins when the related revenue was recognized;
•fluctuations in the product mix of microcontrollers, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, memory products and technology licensing.
•favorable market conditions and product mix.
We adjust our wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity utilization as required to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions.
When production levels are below normal capacity, we charge cost of sales for the unabsorbed capacity.
During each of the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test facilities operated at normal capacity levels, which we measure as a percentage of the capacity of the installed equipment.
The process technologies utilized in our wafer fabrication facilities impact our gross margins.
Our wafer fabrication facility located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) currently utilizes various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.5 micron to 1.0 micron processes.
Our wafer fabrication facility located in Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4) predominantly utilizes our 0.13 micron to 0.5 micron processes.
Substantially all of our production in Fab 2 and Fab 4 has been on 8-inch wafers during the periods covered by this report.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of the decommissioned San Jose wafer fabrication facility and assets from our Micrel acquisition for proceeds of $10.0 million.
Our overall inventory levels were $487.1 million at December 31, 2017, compared to $417.2 million at March 31, 2017.
We maintained 115 days of inventory on our balance sheet at December 31, 2017 compared to 103 days of inventory at March 31, 2017.
We expect our days of inventory level to increase modestly in the March 2018 quarter.
We believe our existing level of inventory will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers.
We operate assembly and test facilities in Thailand and, as a result of our acquisition of Atmel, we acquired a test facility in Calamba, Philippines.
Approximately 41% and 39% of our assembly requirements were performed in our Thailand facilities in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to approximately 32% and 37% during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, respectively.
Third-party contractors located primarily in Asia perform the balance of our assembly operations.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, approximately 67% and 62%, respectively, of our test requirements were performed in our Thailand and Philippines facilities compared to approximately 58% and 61% of our test requirements performed in our Thailand and Philippines facilities during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, respectively.
The percentage of our assembly and test work that is performed internally fluctuates over time based on supply and demand conditions in the semiconductor industry, our internal capacity capabilities and our acquisition activities.
The increases in the percentage of assembly and test work that was performed internally in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016 are primarily due to our recent investments in assembly and test equipment, which have increased our internal capacity capabilities.
Approximately 43% and 42% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, and approximately 42% and 41% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, respectively.
Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2017 were $109.1 million, or 11.0% of net sales, compared to $111.0 million, or 13.3% of net sales, for the three months ended December 31, 2016.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 were $337.6 million, or 11.3% of net sales, compared to $388.7 million, or 15.5% of net sales, for the nine months ended December 31, 2016.
The primary reasons for the decreases in selling, general and administrative expenses were reductions in personnel and associated costs in connection with synergies realized from our Atmel acquisition and lower share-based compensation expense due to accelerated vesting of equity awards held by terminated Atmel employees during the period ended June 30, 2016.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, we incurred special charges and other, net of $0.2 million and $17.3 million, respectively.
The special charges and other, net incurred in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 is comprised primarily of a $19.5 million charge for fees associated with transitioning from the public utility provider in Oregon to a lower cost direct access provider.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, we incurred special charges and other, net of $20.9 million and $52.5 million comprised primarily of employee separation costs and impairment charges.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2016, we used cash to finance a significant portion of the purchase price of our April 4, 2016 acquisition of Atmel.
The primary reason for the increases in interest expense in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the same periods last year relates primarily to the issuance of our 2017 senior and junior debt partially offset by lower interest expense on amounts borrowed under our credit facility.
In February 2017, we paid off the remaining balance on our credit facility.
Other loss, net in the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $3.0 million and other income, net in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was $7.2 million.
Other income, net in the three months ended December 31, 2016 was $0.1 million and other loss, net in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 was $0.7 million.
The primary reason for these changes relates to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
We had an effective tax rate of 227.7% for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and a negative effective tax rate of 28.5% for the three months ended December 31, 2016.
We had an effective tax rate of 80.2% for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and a negative effective tax rate of 87.3% for the nine months ended December 31, 2016.
The geographic dispersion of our earnings and losses contributes to the period-to-period changes in our effective tax rate.
Our domestic statutory tax rate for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was approximately 33% and our domestic statutory tax rate for fiscal 2017 was approximately 37%.
Our non-U.S. blended statutory tax rates for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and fiscal 2017 were much lower than this amount.
The difference in rates applicable in foreign jurisdictions results from a number of factors, including lower statutory rates, historical loss carry-forwards, financing arrangements and other factors.
To the extent that domestic earnings increase while the foreign earnings remain flat or decrease, or increase at a lower rate, our effective tax rate will increase.
Our Thailand manufacturing operations are currently subject to numerous tax holidays granted to us based on our investment in property, plant and equipment in Thailand.
We do not expect the future expiration of any of our tax holiday periods in Thailand to have a material impact on our effective tax rate.
Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.
At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.
If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary.
Discontinued operations represent the mobile touch operations that we acquired as part of our acquisition of Atmel.
On November 10, 2016, we completed the sale of the mobile touch assets to Solomon Systech (Limited) International, a Hong Kong based semiconductor company.
Net loss from discontinued operations for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016 was $0.2 million and $6.0 million, respectively.
We had $1,985.0 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments at December 31, 2017, an increase of $574.8 million from the March 31, 2017 balance.
The increase in net cash provided from operating activities was primarily due to higher net sales as well as operating cash flows resulting from synergies realized from our process efficiency and restructuring efforts related to our acquisition of Atmel.
Excluding investing cash flows used for acquisitions in the nine months ended December 31, 2016, net investing activities resulted in a source of cash of $397.0 million primarily from purchases and sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities.
Capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production capacity, the addition of research and development equipment and new office buildings.
Capital expenditures in fiscal 2017 were relatively less than we have experienced in recent years as we delayed certain purchases until we had finalized and developed plans following our acquisition of Atmel regarding technology platforms and other manufacturing activities.
We currently intend to spend approximately $190.0 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities.
We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next twelve months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to support the growth of our production capabilities for our new products and technologies and to bring in-house more of the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced.
We expect to finance our capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations.
The cash provided by financing activities was lower in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 because of net proceeds of $438.5 million from borrowings under our credit facility to fund operations, finance acquisitions and pay dividends in the nine months ended December 31, 2016.
In addition, financing activities in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 includes $73.4 million in cash used to settle conversions of our 2007 Junior Debt.
In June 2017, in connection with the settlement of $111.3 million of our 2007 Junior Debt, we amended our credit agreement to (i) extend the time period during which we are permitted to repurchase, redeem or exchange our 2007 Junior Debt and (ii) amend the maximum total leverage ratio covenant to extend the time period for permitted refinancings or exchanges of the 2007 Junior Debt that may be excluded from the calculation of the ratio, subject to certain conditions.
In February 2017, we amended our credit agreement to, among other things, increase certain covenant compliance ratios.
The February 2017 amendment included a new collateral agreement that secures our borrowings with all assets of our guarantor subsidiaries with the exception of real property.
Proceeds of loans made under the credit agreement may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes.
At December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, we had no borrowings outstanding under our credit facility, which had a capacity as of December 31, 2017 of $3,122.3 million.
See Note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our credit agreement.
During the December 2017 quarter, we recognized a one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, estimated at $627.7 million, as a result of the recent U.S. tax reform.
This value is identified as provisional in our condensed consolidated financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2017, and is subject to future measurement period adjustments in accordance with SAB 118.
We intend to elect to pay this tax over a period of eight years, with 8% of the transition tax paid each year for fiscal 2018 through fiscal 2022, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid during fiscal 2023, 2024, and 2025.
We enter into derivative transactions from time to time in an attempt to reduce our exposure to currency rate fluctuations.
Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future.
On April 4, 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel.
Under the terms of the merger agreement executed on January 19, 2016, Atmel stockholders received $8.15 per share consisting of $7.00 per share in cash and $1.15 per share in shares of Microchip common stock.
We financed the purchase price of our Atmel acquisition using approximately $2.04 billion of cash held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, approximately $941.6 million from additional borrowings under our existing credit agreement and approximately $486.1 million through the issuance of an aggregate of 10.1 million shares of our common stock.
The acquisition was structured in a manner that enabled us to utilize a substantial portion of the cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries in a tax efficient manner.
Our Board of Directors previously approved a share repurchase program under which up to 15.0 million shares of our common stock may be repurchased in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.
There were no repurchases of common stock during the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
There is no expiration date associated with this repurchase program.
As of December 31, 2017, we held approximately 18.9 million shares as treasury shares.
On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock.
A quarterly dividend of $0.3625 per share was paid on December 5, 2017 in the aggregate amount of $84.9 million.
We expect the aggregate cash dividend for March 2018 to be approximately $85.2 million.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations and borrowings under our credit agreement will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development.
We may increase our borrowings under our credit agreement or seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, for cash dividends, for share repurchases or for acquisitions or other purposes.
There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders.
There have not been any material changes in our contractual obligations from what we disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
During the December 2017 quarter, we recognized a one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, estimated at $627.7 million, as a result of the recent U.S. tax reform of which we expect to result in future cash payments of approximately $300.0 million.
This one-time transition tax is identified as provisional in our condensed consolidated financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2017, and is subject to future measurement period adjustments in accordance with SAB 118.
We intend to elect to pay this tax over a period of eight years, with 8% of the transition tax paid each year for fiscal 2018 through fiscal 2022, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid during fiscal 2023, 2024, and 2025.
As of December 31, 2017, we are not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.
In the ordinary course of business, we may provide standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated by us or our subsidiaries.
We have not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee arrangements.
Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe we will not be required to make any payments under these guarantee arrangements.
We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the three months ended December 31, 2017.
