Refer to Note 15 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding legal proceedings.
When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act);
•property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.
We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.
On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi, which is our largest and most complex acquisition ever.
In addition, in April 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel; and in August 2015, we completed our acquisition of Micrel.
The integration process for our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities.
We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.
We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.
We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.
We have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction.
In particular, as a result of our Atmel acquisition, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation and disputes related to the Atmel business.
See Note 12 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding pending litigation.
Acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results.
To fund our acquisition of Microsemi, we used a significant portion of our cash balances and incurred approximately $8.1 billion of additional debt.
Further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner.
Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties.
We may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the assets or businesses.
These transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions.
As of June 30, 2018, the principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $12.82 billion.
As a result of such transactions, we have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past.
We may need or desire to refinance our convertible debt, senior debt, term loan debt or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.
Servicing our current debt will require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to fund future payments.
Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our outstanding convertible debt and debt incurred to finance our acquisition of Microsemi, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors.
Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and to fund capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases or acquisitions.
If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive.
Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time.
Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules.
Turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times.
Because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales.
Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.
The average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have declined over time.
We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions.
We have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices.
However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future.
We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products.
We are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our SuperFlash and other technologies also rely on foundries and other contractors.
We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs.
Specifically, during the first three months of fiscal 2019 and during fiscal 2018, approximately 42% of our net sales, excluding Microsemi which relies on outside wafer foundries for substantially all of their wafer fabrication needs, came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries.
We also use several contractors located primarily in Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products.
Specifically, during the first three months of fiscal 2019, approximately 52% of our assembly requirements and 33% of our test requirements, excluding Microsemi which relies on contractors for substantially all of their assembly needs, were performed by third party contractors compared to approximately 58% of our assembly requirements and 36% of our test requirements during fiscal 2018.
Our reliance on third party contractors and foundries increased as a result of our acquisitions of Microsemi, Atmel, Micrel, SMSC, Supertex and ISSC.
Our use of third parties somewhat reduces our control over the subcontracted portions of our business.
Our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if the countries in which such contractors are located were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption.
If these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner on terms favorable to us, or at all.
Additionally, these subcontractors could abandon fabrication processes that are important to us, or fail to adopt advanced manufacturing technologies that we desire to control costs.
Certain of our SuperFlash and other technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services.
The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes.
These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues.
As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields.
This could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for our failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines.
Although we operated at normal capacity levels during fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, there can be no assurance that such production levels will be maintained in future periods.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand.
Historically, since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business tends to generate stronger revenues in the first and second quarters and comparatively weaker revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year.
Since our acquisition of Microsemi on May 29, 2018, seasonality has become more difficult to predict due to the impact of Microsemi on our business.
As a result, in periods when these broad fluctuations, changes in business conditions or acquisitions occur, it is difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business.
The semiconductor industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity.
We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse customer base across a broad range of market segments.
Our business is dependent on selling through distributors.
Sales through distributors accounted for approximately 53% of our net sales in the first three months of fiscal 2019 and approximately 54% of our net sales in fiscal 2018.
We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors, and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice.
Any future adverse conditions in the U.S. or global economies or in the U.S. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors.
Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or similar laws, by our distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business.
Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis.
•market acceptance of our customers' end products.
Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing new product development.
In addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance.
We may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results.
We may lose sales if suppliers of raw materials, components or equipment fail to meet our or our customers' needs or increase costs.
We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various materials and equipment that meet our standards.
The materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases.
Additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change the relationships that we have with our suppliers.
Also, the application of trade restrictions or tariffs by the U.S. or other countries may adversely impact the industry supply chain.
This could impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs.
We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts.
In particular, we have recently experienced longer lead times for equipment which we need for capacity expansion at certain of our manufacturing facilities.
An interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business.
Our customers may also be adversely affected by these same issues.
The materials, components and equipment necessary for their businesses could become more difficult to obtain for various reasons not limited to business interruptions of suppliers, consolidation in their supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions, or application of trade restrictions or tariffs that impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs.
Such interruptions of our customers’ businesses could harm our business.
Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices, including ASC 606 which will impact our revenue recognition.
We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.
These accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the FASB and the SEC.
New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future.
New accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under generally accepted accounting principles in the Unites States of America (US GAAP).
Since our adoption of ASU 2014-09, which began with our fiscal year commencing on April 1, 2018, we no longer defer revenue until sale by the distributor to the end customer, but rather, are required to estimate the effects of returns and allowances provided to distributors and record revenue at the time of sale to the distributor.
Refer to Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information on the new guidance and its expected impact on us.
Business interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to natural disasters or other events, could harm our business.
Operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control.
We have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption.
While our facilities in Thailand have continued to operate normally, there can be no assurance that any future flooding in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations.
If operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment.
If we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms.
This could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers.
Additionally, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons.
Our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks.
•market acceptance of our customers' end products.
Because our licensed technologies are complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technologies.
Our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them.
We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims.
As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from third parties from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to claims made against us, our direct or indirect customers or our licensees.
These legal proceedings and claims, even if meritless, could result in substantial costs to us and divert our resources.
•a requirement to pay damages or penalties.
Because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, the expenses and damages we are asked to pay may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved.
While we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, certain of our contracts may not exclude such liabilities.
Further, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law.
We do have liability insurance which covers certain damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims.
Further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, defense, safety, security, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons.
We may be subject to claims if our products, or the integration of our products, cause system failures.
We will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products.
To that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes.
The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications.
In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.
We regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers.
Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales.
During the first three months of fiscal 2019, approximately 83% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 24% in China, 14% in Taiwan, and 11% in Germany.
During fiscal 2018, approximately 85% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 30% in China, 11% in Taiwan, and 8% in Germany.
During the first three months of fiscal 2019, our acquisition of Microsemi and our transition to sell-in revenue recognition contributed to the change in net sales by country.
A strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy.
The market for integrated circuit products in China is highly competitive, and both international and domestic competitors are aggressively seeking to increase their market share.
Increased competition or economic weakness in the China market may make it difficult for us to achieve our desired sales volumes in China.
We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers.
A large portion of our finished goods inventory is maintained in Thailand.
There can be no assurance that any future flooding or political instability in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations.
As part of our Atmel acquisition, we acquired a test facility in Calamba, Philippines.
We use various foundries and other foreign contractors for a significant portion of our assembly and testing and wafer fabrication requirements.
Our contractual relationships with our customers expose us to risks and liabilities.
When we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer.
Even though we had over 122,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 10% of our total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and four of our top ten direct customers are contract manufacturers that perform manufacturing services for many customers, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits.
We have contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale.
For several of the significant markets that we sell into, such as the automotive and personal computer markets, our current or potential customers may possess significant leverage over us in negotiating the terms and conditions of supply as a result of their market size and position.
For example, under certain contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for quality issues or claims of intellectual property infringement.
If we are unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues.
While we try to minimize the number of contracts which contain such provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities, and set caps on our liability exposure, sometimes we are not able to do so.
Further, where we do not have negotiated contracts with our customers, the terms of our customer's orders may govern the transaction and contain terms that are not favorable to us.
Reliance on government contracts and sales to governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
With respect to our acquisition of Microsemi, a significant portion of their sales are from or are derived from government agencies or customers whose principal sales are to U.S. government agencies.
Such sales are subject to uncertainties regarding governmental spending levels, spending priorities and policy changes.
Future sales to U.S. government agencies or customers are also subject to uncertain government appropriations and national defense policies and priorities, including the constraints of the budgetary process, changes in the timing and potential spending priorities and the impact of any future sequestrations.
Such sales are also subject to uncertainties related to monetary, regulatory, tax and trade policies implemented by current or future administrations or by Congress.
The U.S. government and its contractors may terminate their contracts with Microsemi or us at any time.
For example, in 2014, Microsemi had a $75 million contract terminated for convenience by the U.S. government.
Uncertainty with respect to government spending and termination of contracts associated with government related projects could have a material adverse impact on the revenue and other benefits we achieve from our Microsemi acquisition.
Our business related to U.S. governmental agencies or customers requires us to comply with applicable governmental regulations, particularly for our facilities, systems and personnel that service such customers.
Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering, manufacturing and other personnel.
The competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense.
We may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require.
The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business.
The loss of, or any inability to attract personnel, even if not key personnel, if experienced in sufficient numbers could harm our business.
Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our operating results.
We use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures.
In periods when the U.S. dollar is significantly declining in relation to the British pound, Euro and Thai baht, the operational costs in our European and Thailand subsidiaries are adversely affected.
We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business.
Any significant disruption to our systems or networks, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results.
Such disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or supplier, customer or employee personal data.
There can be no assurance that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attacks or disruptions.
Any such attack or disruption could result in additional costs related to rebuilding of our internal systems, defending litigation, responding to regulatory actions, or paying damages.
Third-party service providers, such as wafer foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors have access to certain portions of our and our customers' sensitive data.
In the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard the data that they hold, security breaches and loss of data could result.
We have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations.
In these circumstances, we believe that it is more cost effective for us to self-insure certain risks than to pay the high premium costs.
The risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to certain property, product defects, employment risks, environmental matters, political risks, and intellectual property matters.
Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently.
Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 which requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors.
Although we have never identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we have from time to time identified significant deficiencies.
We are subject to stringent environmental and other regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses.
We must comply with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our products and manufacturing processes.
Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities.
Such environmental regulations have required us in the past, and could require us in the future, to buy costly equipment or to incur significant expenses to comply with such regulations.
Our failure to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could impact the health of our employees and others and could impact our ability to operate.
Such failure could also restrict our ability to ship certain products to certain countries, require us to modify our operations' logistics, or require us to incur other significant costs and expenses.
There is a continuing expansion in environmental laws with a focus on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances and substances of high concern in electronic products and shipping materials.
These and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture, sell and ship our products.
It may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantities of compliant products to meet customers' needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability.
We may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold unsaleable inventory as a result of changes to regulations or customer requirements.
We expect these risks and trends to continue.
These requirements may increase our own costs, as well as those passed on to us by our supply chain.
Some of our customers and potential customers are requiring that we implement operating practices that are more stringent than what is required by applicable laws with respect to workplace and labor requirements, the type of materials we use in our products, environmental matters or other items.
Our suppliers may refuse to implement these operating practices, or may charge us more for complying with them.
Developing, administering, monitoring and auditing these customer-requested practices at our own sites and those in our supply chain will increase our costs and may require that we hire more personnel.
Customer demands and regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses.
As required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, in August 2012, the SEC released investigation, disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of "conflict" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and which are necessary to the functionality or production of products.
We filed a report on Form SD with the SEC regarding such matters on May 23, 2018.
If we cannot certify that we are using conflict-free minerals, customers may demand that we change the sourcing of minerals and other materials used in the manufacture of our products, even if the costs for compliant minerals and materials significantly increases and availability is limited.
If we make changes to materials or suppliers, there will likely be costs associated with qualifying new suppliers and production capacity and quality could be negatively impacted.
Our relationships with customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if we are unable to certify that our products are "conflict-free."
We have incurred, and expect in the future to incur, additional costs associated with complying with these new disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products.
We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free in a materially different manner than advocated by the Responsible Minerals Initiative or the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
If we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it cannot be sold.
Regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into which we ship our products could levy fines or restrict our ability to export or transfer products.
A significant portion of our sales are made through the exporting and importing of products.
In addition to local jurisdictions' trade regulations, our U.S.-manufactured products or products based on U.S. technology are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade, including, but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Export Administration Regulations (EAR), International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and denied entities administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
Licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries.
A determination by the U.S. or foreign government that we have failed to comply with trade or export regulations or anti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products.
Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and earnings.
Further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to transfer product to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations.
Our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies.
Currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the U.S., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside of the U.S.
Furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings.
The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors.
•actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors.
Some or all of the foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our convertible debentures to decline or fluctuate substantially.
Anti-takeover defenses in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts, which could also reduce the market price of our common stock.
•advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.
In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time.
The application of Section 203 also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us.
As a result of our acquisition activity, our goodwill and intangible assets have increased significantly in recent years and we may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or intangible assets.
When we acquire a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets.
In connection with the completion of our acquisition of Microsemi in May 2018, our balance of goodwill and intangible assets increased significantly.
We review our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets is more likely than not impaired.
If in future periods, we determine that our goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets which would have a negative effect on our consolidated financial statements.
Our foreign pension plans are unfunded, and any requirement to fund these plans in the future could negatively affect our cash position and operating capital.
In connection with our acquisitions of Microsemi and Atmel, we assumed defined benefit pension plans that cover certain of our French and German employees.
Most of these plans are unfunded in compliance with local statutory regulations, and we have no immediate intention of funding these plans.
We expect to pay approximately $1.2 million in fiscal 2019 for benefits earned.
Should legislative regulations require complete or partial funding of these plans in the future, it could negatively affect our cash position and operating capital.
If we are unable to comply with the terms of those grants, we may not be able to receive or recognize grant benefits or we may be required to repay grant benefits previously paid to us and recognize related charges, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial position.
From time to time, we receive economic incentive grants and allowances from European governments, agencies and research organizations targeted at increasing employment at specific locations.
economic incentive, headcount, capital and research and development expenditure and other covenants that must be met to receive and retain grant benefits, and these programs can be subjected to periodic review by the relevant governments.
Noncompliance by us with the conditions of the grants could result in our forfeiture of all or a portion of any future amounts to be received, as well as the repayment of all or a portion of amounts received to date.
Conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders.
The conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures.
Upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option.
If upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock.
Upon conversion, we intend to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of the debentures in cash.
Any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon conversion of our debentures could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.
In addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock.
Climate change regulations and sustained adverse climate change pose regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct business.
Climate change regulations at the federal, state or local level or in international jurisdictions could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials which may cost more or be less available, increase our investment in control technology for greenhouse gas emissions, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities.
These regulations could significantly increase our costs and restrict our manufacturing operations by virtue of requirements for new equipment.
New permits may be required for our current operations, or expansions thereof.
Failure to timely receive permits could result in fines, suspension of production, or cessation of operations at one or more facilities.
The cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
Further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us, such as water and power shortages, and higher costs of water or energy to control the temperature of our facilities.
While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can interrupt our business, we cannot be certain that our plans will protect us from all such disasters or events.
