You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications.
Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including general purpose and specialized microcontrollers, development tools and related software, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, wired and wireless connectivity products, field-programmable gate array (FPGA) products, timing systems, memory products and Flash-IP licensing.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.
We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries.
The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, aerospace, office communication, and computing.
Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe and assembly and test.
The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry.
techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields.
Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles.
This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and the assembly and test profit margin.
We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our embedded control products.
While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products.
We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.
We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position.
Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory, analog and mixed-signal products, FPGA's, timing systems, Flash-IP, development systems, software and application-specific software libraries.
On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards of Microchip, was approximately $8.24 billion.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized in our consolidated financial statements $3.15 billion in liabilities of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under our amended and restated revolving line of credit (the "Credit Facility"), $3.00 billion under the term loan feature of the Credit Facility ("Term Loan Facility"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
We incurred $22.0 million in costs related to the acquisition.
As a result of the acquisition, Microsemi became a wholly owned subsidiary of Microchip.
Microsemi offers a comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor and system solutions for aerospace and defense, communications, data center and industrial markets.
Our primary reason for this acquisition was to expand our range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending our served available market.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, business combinations, share-based compensation, inventories, income taxes, senior and junior subordinated convertible debt and contingencies.
We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis.
Therefore, revenue recognition was deferred until the pricing uncertainty was resolved, which generally occurred when the distributor sold the product to their customer.
At the time of shipment to these distributors, we recorded a trade receivable for the selling price as there was a legally enforceable right to payment, relieved inventory for the carrying value of goods shipped since legal title had passed to the distributor, and recorded the gross margin in deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
We sold the majority of the items in our product catalog to our distributors worldwide at a uniform list price.
However, distributors resold our products to end customers at a broad range of individually negotiated price points.
The majority of our distributors' resales required a reduction from the original list price paid.
Often, under these circumstances, we remitted back to the distributor a portion of their original purchase price after the resale transaction was completed in the form of a credit against the distributors' outstanding accounts receivable balance.
The credits were on a per unit basis and were not given to the distributor until they provided information to us regarding the sale to their end customer.
Discounts to a price less than our cost have historically been rare.
The effect of granting these credits established the net selling price to our distributors for the product and resulted in the net revenue recognized by us when the product was sold by the distributors to their end customers.
Thus, a portion of the "deferred income on shipments to distributors" balance represented the amount of distributors' original purchase price that was credited back to the distributors in the subsequent periods.
At March 31, 2018, we had approximately $479.6 million of deferred revenue and $145.8 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $333.8 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors.
The deferred income on shipments to distributors that was ultimately recognized in our income statement was lower than the amount reflected on the balance sheet at March 31, 2018 due to additional price credits that were granted to the distributors when the product was sold to their customers.
These additional price credits historically have resulted in the deferred income approximating the overall gross margins that we recognized in the distribution channel of our business.
Distributor advances, reflected as a reduction of deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, totaled $203.9 million at March 31, 2018.
On sales to distributors, our payment terms generally require the distributor to settle amounts owed to us for an amount in excess of their ultimate cost.
This practice has an adverse impact on the working capital of our distributors.
As such, we have entered into agreements with certain distributors whereby we advance cash to the distributors to reduce the distributors' working capital requirements.
These advances are reconciled at least on a quarterly basis and are estimated based on the amount of ending inventory as reported by the distributor multiplied by a negotiated percentage.
The terms of these advances are set forth in binding legal agreements and are unsecured, bear no interest on unsettled balances and are due upon demand.
The agreements governing these advances can be canceled by us at any time.
When we reduced the price of our products, it allowed the distributor to claim a credit against its outstanding accounts receivable balances based on the new price of the inventory it had on hand as of the date of the price reduction.
We routinely evaluated the risk of impairment of the deferred cost of sales component of the deferred income on shipments to distributors account.
As is customary in the semiconductor industry, we offer price concessions and stock rotation rights to many of our distributors.
As these are forms of variable consideration, we estimate the amount of consideration to which we will be entitled using recent historical data and applying the expected value method.
Usually, there is only a single performance obligation in the contract, and therefore the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
After the transaction price has been allocated, we recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied.
Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with distributors is recognized at the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the end customer.
Sales to direct customers usually do not meet the definition of a contract, as defined by ASC 606, until shipment of the product occurs.
Generally, the transaction price associated with contracts with direct customers is set at the standalone selling price and is not variable.
Usually, there is only a single performance obligation in the contract, and therefore the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
After the transaction price has been allocated, we recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied.
Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with direct customers is recognized at the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the customer.
Revenue generated from our licensees is governed by licensing agreements.
The final transaction price is determined by multiplying the usage of the license by the royalty, which is fixed in the licensing agreement.
Revenue is recognized as usage of the license occurs.
We measure at fair value and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values.
For the past several years, we have utilized RSUs as our primary equity incentive compensation instrument for employees.
Share-based compensation cost is measured on the grant date based on the fair market value of our common stock discounted for expected future dividends and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods.
Total share-based compensation during the six months ended September 30, 2018 was $87.9 million, of which $80.4 million was reflected in operating expenses and $7.5 million was reflected in cost of sales.
Total share-based compensation included in our inventory balance was $8.6 million at September 30, 2018.
We recognize forfeitures as they occur.
If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense.
Future share-based compensation expense and unearned share-based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or we assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the first-in, first-out method.
We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable.
In estimating our inventory obsolescence, we primarily evaluate estimates of demand over a 12-month period and record impairment charges for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12-month demand.
Estimates for projected 12-month demand are generally based on the average shipments of the prior three-month period, which are then annualized to adjust for any potential seasonality in our business.
The estimated 12-month demand is compared to our most recently developed sales forecast to further reconcile the 12-month demand estimate.
Management reviews and adjusts the estimates as appropriate based on specific situations.
For example, demand can be adjusted up for new products for which historic sales are not representative of future demand.
Alternatively, demand can be adjusted down to the extent any existing products are being replaced or discontinued.
There was no charge to cost of sales for reduced production levels in each of the six month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act"), we released our valuation allowance on foreign tax credits during the period ending March 31, 2018, which was provisional.
We are still evaluating how the Act impacts our valuation allowance on state net operating loss carryforwards and state tax credits, and we may report an adjustment to the valuation allowances under Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118 in the subsequent quarter.
Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.
At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.
If this threshold is not met, no tax benefit of the uncertain tax position is recognized.
If this threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement.
We will record an adjustment to a previously recorded position if new information or facts related to the position are identified in a subsequent period.
All adjustments to the positions are recorded in the income statement.
Generally, adjustments will be recorded in periods subsequent to the initial recognition if the taxing authority has completed an audit of the period or if the statute of limitation expires.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in the estimation process and in consideration of the criteria of the accounting model, amounts recognized in the financial statements in periods subsequent to the initial recognition may significantly differ from the estimated exposure of the position under the accounting model.
As a fiscal year-end taxpayer, certain provisions of the Act began to impact us in our third quarter of fiscal 2018, while other provisions have become effective for us in fiscal 2019.
In addition, we expect to be impacted by the limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, which we expect to generate disallowed interest expense carryforwards in future periods, causing an increase in our overall deferred tax asset position.
Due to the complexity of the new tax on low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries, we are continuing to evaluate this provision of the Act and the application of ASC 740.
Our selection of an accounting policy will depend, in part, on analyzing our facts to determine what the impact is expected to be under each method.
As of September 30, 2018, we are still evaluating which accounting policy to utilize.
We separately account for the liability and equity components of our senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt (unsecured debt) borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized.
This results in a bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity and the accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to be recognized as part of interest expense in our condensed consolidated statements of income.
Lastly, we include the dilutive effect of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in our diluted income per share calculation regardless of whether the market price triggers or other contingent conversion features have been met.
We apply the treasury stock method as we have the intent and have adopted an accounting policy to settle the principal amount of the senior and junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash.
This method results in incremental dilutive shares when the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the conversion prices per share and adjusts as dividends are recorded in the future.
Additionally, we are involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant.
Consequently, we could incur uninsured liability in any of those actions.
Litigation and disputes relating to the semiconductor industry are not uncommon, and we are, from time to time, subject to such litigation and disputes.
As a result, no assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation or disputes in the future.
We accrue for claims and contingencies when losses become probable and reasonably estimable.
Where we can reasonably estimate a range of losses we may incur regarding such a matter, we record an accrual for the amount within the range that constitutes our best estimate.
If we can reasonably estimate a range but no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other, we use the amount that is the low end of such range.
Contingencies of an acquired company that exist as of the date of the acquisition are measured at fair value if determinable, which generally is based on a probability weighted model.
If fair value is not determinable, contingencies of an acquired company are recognized when they become probable and reasonably estimable.
We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of our SuperFlash and other technologies.
We sell our products to distributors and original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, in a broad range of markets, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral.
In certain circumstances, a customer's financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be typically provided by letters of credit.
The overall average selling price of our products increased significantly during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose average selling price is higher than the average selling price of our historical business due to the types of products they offer and the types of customers and markets they serve.
•continued market share gains in the segments of the markets we address.
Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales.
The decrease is due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose microcontroller product line accounted for a relatively lower percentage of its total net sales.
These sales increases were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.
The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to the proprietary nature of these products.
We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, moderate pricing pressure in certain microcontroller product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions.
Sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products accounted for approximately 29.3% and 28.4% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 23.6% and 24.1% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively.
The increase is due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose analog, interface, mixed signal and timing product line accounted for a relatively higher percentage of its total net sales.
These sales increases were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
Analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in nature.
Currently, we consider a majority of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products.
We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products will increase over time.
Sales of our memory products accounted for approximately 3.4% and 3.7% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 5.1% of our net sales for each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively.
These sales decreases were due primarily to customer demand conditions.
We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory products.
Our FPGA product line was primarily acquired as part of our acquisition of Microsemi on May 29, 2018.
Sales of our FPGA products accounted for approximately 4.9% and 4.1%, respectively, of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
Technology licensing accounted for approximately 2.7% and 2.5% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 2.5% and 2.6% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively.
Net sales related to our technology licensing increased 48.1% and 27.8% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017.
Multi-market and Other (MMO) consists of manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application specific integrated circuits, and products for aerospace applications.
Revenue from these services and products accounted for approximately 5.4% and 4.6% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 2.9% and 2.7% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively.
These increases were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi, which significantly increased our portfolio of timing systems products.
MMO net sales can fluctuate over time based on general economic and semiconductor industry conditions as well as changes in demand for our manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting).
Distributors accounted for approximately 49.7% and 51.3% of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 and approximately 53.5% and 54.5% of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2017.
The decreases in these percentages in the periods ended September 30, 2018 compared to the periods ended September 30, 2017 are due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose distributors accounted for a smaller portion of net sales than Microchip's historical business.
Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers.
We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base.
We believe that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel.
Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advance notice.
At September 30, 2018, our distributors maintained 37 days of inventory of our products compared to 36 days of inventory at our distributors at March 31, 2018.
Over the past five fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between 31 days and 40 days.
Prior to our adoption of ASU 2014-09-Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) on April 1, 2018, we did not believe that inventory holding patterns at our distributors materially impacted our net sales due to the fact that we recognized revenue based on when the distributor sold the product to their customer.
Upon our adoption of Topic 606 on April 1, 2018, we are required to recognize revenue from distributors at the time our products are sold to the distributor.
Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America.
Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 80% and 82% of our total net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 compared to approximately 84% of our total net sales in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2017.
Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated.
Sales to customers in Asia have generally increased over time due to many of our customers transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia and growth in demand from the emerging Asian market; however, sales to Asia as a percentage of our total net sales decreased in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose sales to customers in Asia accounted for a smaller portion of their total net sales than Microchip's historical business.
Sales to customers in Americas increased as a percentage of total sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which had more concentration in the aerospace and defense industry in the Americas.
Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia.
Our gross profit in the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $689.3 million, or 48.1% of net sales, compared to $614.1 million, or 60.7% of net sales, in the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Our gross profit in the six months ended September 30, 2018 was $1,331.3 million, or 50.3% of net sales, compared to $1,198.5 million, or 60.4% of net sales, in the six months ended September 30, 2017.
•charges of approximately $182.1 million and $289.7 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, related to the recognition of acquired inventory at fair value as a result of our acquisition of Microsemi which increased the value of our acquired inventory and subsequently increased our cost of sales and reduced our gross margins when the related revenue was recognized;
•fluctuations in the product mix of microcontrollers, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, memory products and technology licensing.
•favorable market conditions and product mix.
We adjust our wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity utilization as required to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions.
When production levels are below normal capacity, which we measure as a percentage of the capacity of the installed equipment, we charge cost of sales for the unabsorbed capacity.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in an unabsorbed capacity charge of $5.0 million.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, our wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test facilities operated at normal capacity levels.
The process technologies utilized in our wafer fabrication facilities impact our gross margins.
Our wafer fabrication facility located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) currently utilizes various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.5 micron to 1.0 micron processes.
Our wafer fabrication facility located in Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4) predominantly utilizes our 0.13 micron to 0.5 micron processes.
All of our production in Fab 2 and Fab 4 has been on 8-inch wafers during the periods covered by this report.
We consider normal capacity at Fab 5 to be 70% to 75%.
As a result of our acquisition of Micrel in August 2015, we acquired a 6-inch wafer fabrication facility in San Jose, California and have since transitioned products previously manufactured at this facility to our Fab 2, Fab 4 and Fab 5 facilities.
During the quarter ended December 31, 2016, we decommissioned this San Jose facility and, in June 2017, we completed the sale of these assets for proceeds of $10.0 million.
Our overall inventory levels were $836.7 million at September 30, 2018, compared to $476.2 million at March 31, 2018.
Our overall inventory levels increased since March 31, 2018 because of our acquisition of Microsemi, which had $320.9 million of inventory as of September 30, 2018, including approximately $120.1 million of remaining acquired inventory fair value mark-up.
We maintained 103 days of inventory on our balance sheet at September 30, 2018 compared to 112 days of inventory at March 31, 2018.
Excluding the $120.1 million of remaining acquired inventory fair value mark-up from our Microsemi acquisition, we would have maintained 117 days of inventory on our balance sheet at September 30, 2018 compared to 112 days of inventory at March 31, 2018.
We expect our days of inventory levels in the December 2018 quarter to be flat to up 10 days compared to the September 2018 levels.
We believe our existing level of inventory will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers.
We operate assembly and test facilities in Thailand, the Philippines, and other locations throughout the world.
Third-party contractors located primarily in Asia perform the balance of our assembly and test operations.
Approximately 58% and 54% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to 42% in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2017.
Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $176.6 million, or 12.3% of net sales, compared to $114.3 million, or 11.3% of net sales, for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
The primary reasons for the increases in selling, general and administrative expenses were additional costs from our acquisition of Microsemi, including approximately $5.2 million and $31.6 million of acquisition-related legal and professional service expenses in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The primary reason for the increases in acquired intangible asset amortization was increased amortization from our acquisition of Microsemi partially offset by decreased amortization of intangible assets from our prior acquisitions.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, we incurred special charges and other, net of $18.2 million and $58.3 million, respectively.
The special charges and other, net incurred in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 is comprised primarily of $12.1 million and $57.2 million, respectively, of employee separation costs related to the Microsemi acquisition and impairment losses of $1.5 million and $3.5 million, respectively.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, we incurred special charges and other, net of $19.9 million and $17.1 million, respectively, comprised primarily of a $19.5 million charge for fees associated with transitioning from a public utility provider to a lower cost direct access provider.
Our restructuring activities include workforce, property and other operating expense rationalizations as well as combining product roadmaps and manufacturing operations.
incurred employee separations costs, contract exit costs, other operating expenses and intangible asset impairment losses.
The impairment charges in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 were recognized as a result of writing off intangible assets purchased from Microsemi prior to the close of the acquisition and other intangible assets that were impaired as a result of combining and prioritizing the project roadmaps of the combined companies.
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we used a substantial portion of our cash to help finance the purchase price of our acquisition of Microsemi, which closed on May 29, 2018.
The primary reason for the increases in interest expense relates to our additional borrowings to help finance our acquisition of Microsemi.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, we de-recognized $4.1 million in deferred financing fees in connection with early pay downs of a portion of the outstanding balance on our Term Loan Facility and our Revolving Credit Facility.
During the six months ended September 30, 2017, we exchanged in privately negotiated transactions $111.3 million aggregate principal amount of our 2007 Junior Convertible Debt for (i) $111.3 million principal amount of our 2017 Junior Convertible Debt (2017 Junior Debt) with a market value of $119.3 million plus (ii) the issuance of 3.2 million shares of our common stock with a value of $254.6 million resulting in a loss on settlement of convertible debt of $13.8 million.
The primary reason for these changes relates to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Our effective tax rate for the six months ended September 30, 2018 was not meaningful due to the amount of pre-tax income and the tax benefits recorded during the period.
We had a negative effective tax rate of 2.1% for the six months ended September 30, 2017.
Our domestic statutory tax rate for the six months ended September 30, 2018 was approximately 22.2% and our domestic statutory tax rate for fiscal 2018 was approximately 32.6%.
Our non-U.S. blended statutory tax rates for the six months ended September 30, 2018 and fiscal 2018 were much lower than this amount.
The difference in rates applicable in foreign jurisdictions results from a number of factors, including lower statutory rates, historical loss carry-forwards, financing arrangements and other factors.
Our Thailand manufacturing operations are currently subject to numerous tax holidays granted to us based on our investment in property, plant and equipment in Thailand.
We do not expect the future expiration of any of our tax holiday periods in Thailand to have a material impact on our effective tax rate.
Microsemi’s tax holiday in Malaysia was granted in 2009 and is effective through December 2019, subject to continued compliance with the tax holiday’s requirements.
The remaining material components of foreign income taxed at a rate lower than the U.S. are earnings accrued in Ireland at a 12.5% statutory tax rate and earnings accrued in Malta at a 0% effective tax rate.
Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.
At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.
If this threshold is not met, no tax benefit of the uncertain tax position is recognized.
If the threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement.
The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments over this time period is primarily attributable to $1.74 billion in cash and $8.40 billion from additional debt to fund our acquisition of Microsemi and payoff Microsemi’s existing debt, partially offset by proceeds from new debt issuances of $4.99 billion, net borrowings of $3.33 billion on our credit facility and cash generated by operating activities.
During the six months ended September 30, 2017, net investing activities resulted in a use of cash of $592.0 million primarily the net change in our investments, capital purchases and sale of assets.
Capital expenditures in the six months ended September 30, 2018 were $161.4 million compared to $82.0 million in the six months ended September 30, 2017.
Capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production capacity, the addition of research and development equipment and new office buildings.
Capital expenditures in the first half of fiscal 2018 were relatively less than we had experienced in recent years as we delayed certain purchases until we had finalized and developed plans following our acquisition of Atmel regarding technology platforms and other manufacturing activities.
We currently intend to spend approximately $170.0 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities.
We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next twelve months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to support the growth of our production capabilities for our new products and technologies and to bring in-house more of the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced.
We expect to finance our capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations.
•net proceeds of $3.63 billion from borrowings under our Credit Facility;
On May 29, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards for our stock, was approximately $8.24 billion.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized $3.15 billion in liabilities in our consolidated financial statements of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under our Credit Facility, $3.00 billion under the term loan feature of the Credit Facility ("Term Loan Facility"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
We incurred $22.0 million in acquisition costs related to the acquisition.
As a result of the acquisition, Microsemi became a wholly owned subsidiary of Microchip.
Microsemi offers a comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor and system solutions for aerospace and defense, communications, data center and industrial markets.
Our primary reason for this acquisition was to expand our range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending our served available market.
The Revolving Loans bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus a spread of 0.00% to 1.00% or an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a spread of 1.00% to 2.00%, in each case, with such spread being determined based on the consolidated senior leverage ratio for the preceding four fiscal quarter period.
In June 2017, in connection with the settlement of $111.3 million of our convertible debt, we amended our credit agreement to (i) extend the time period during which we are permitted to repurchase, redeem or exchange our 2007 Junior Convertible Debt and (ii) amend the maximum total leverage ratio covenant to extend the time period for permitted refinancings or exchanges of the 2007 Junior Convertible Debt that may be excluded from the calculation of the ratio, subject to certain conditions.
In February 2017, we amended our Credit Facility to, among other things, increase certain covenant compliance ratios.
The February 2017 amendment included a new collateral agreement that secures our borrowings with all assets of our guarantor subsidiaries with the exception of real property.
Proceeds of loans made under our Credit Facility may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes.
At September 30, 2018, we had $3.10 billion of outstanding borrowings under the revolving line of credit which has a capacity of $3.60 billion, and no borrowings at March 31, 2017.
See Note 13 of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our Credit Facility.
Due to this change, the jurisdiction in which our cash is at any given point in time, no longer has a significant impact on our liquidity.
As a result of the Act, as of March 31, 2018, we recognized a one-time transition tax expense of $644.7 million on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, of which we expected cash payments of approximately $363.5 million after offsets by the utilization of various tax credit carryforwards in the United States.
This value is identified as provisional in our condensed consolidated financial statements for the period ended March 31, 2018, and is subject to future measurement period adjustments in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118.
We intend to elect to pay this tax over a period of eight years, with 8% of the transition tax paid each year for fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2023, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid during fiscal 2024, 2025, and 2026.
We enter into derivative transactions from time to time in an attempt to reduce our exposure to currency rate fluctuations.
Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future.
As of September 30, 2018, we held approximately 17.0 million shares as treasury shares.
On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock.
A quarterly dividend of $0.3640 per share was paid on September 4, 2018 in the aggregate amount of $85.9 million.
A quarterly dividend of $0.3645 per share was declared on November 7, 2018 and will be paid on December 5, 2018 to stockholders of record as of November 21, 2018.
We expect the aggregate cash dividend for December 2018 to be approximately $86.3 million.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations and borrowings under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development.
We may increase our borrowings under our Credit Facility or seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, for cash dividends, for share repurchases or for acquisitions or other purposes.
There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders.
The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information.
In the ordinary course of business, we may provide standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated by us or our subsidiaries.
We have not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee arrangements.
Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe we will not be required to make any payments under these guarantee arrangements.
We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the three months ended September 30, 2018.
