Risk Factors" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 10, 2017; and other documents we have filed with the SEC.
We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash provided by operations, and the availability of additional funds under the Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund operations for at least the next 12 months; however, any projections of future financial needs and sources of working capital are subject to uncertainty.
The new model uses a forward-looking expected loss method, which will generally result in earlier recognition of allowances for losses.For additional information about our material legal proceedings, please see Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies, of the accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A.
Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2017 (the "Form 10-K"), each of which could materially affect our business, financial position, or future results of operations.
Except as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors included in the Form 10-K. Changes in applicable tax regulations and resolutions of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results.
As rule making bodies and new legislation is enacted to interpret the Tax Act, these changes may adjust the estimates provided in this report.
The changes may possibly be material, due to, among other things, the Treasury Department’s promulgation of regulations and guidance that interpret the Tax Act, corrective technical legislative amendments that may change the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates the company has utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates and foreign exchange rates of foreign subsidiaries.
In addition, it is uncertain how each country where we do business may react to the Tax Act.