Risk Factors" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 9, 2018; and other documents we have filed with the SEC.
We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, cash provided by operations, and the availability of additional funds under the Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund operations for at least the next 12 months; however, any projections of future financial needs and sources of working capital are subject to uncertainty.For additional information about our material legal proceedings, please see Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies, of the accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A.
Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2018 (the "Form 10-K"), and Part II, "Risk Factors" in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 ended June 30, 2018, filed with the SEC on August 7, 2018, each of which could materially affect our business, financial position, or future results of operations.
We are required to annually test goodwill to determine if impairment has occurred, either through a quantitative or qualitative analysis.
Additionally, interim reviews must be performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred.
On July 27, 2017 the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase 1,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time in the market or in privately negotiated repurchases as determined by management.
"Average Price Paid per Share" reflects open market repurchases of common stock only.
Under the terms approved by the board of directors, immediately prior to a Change of Control (as defined in the existing Change of Control agreements currently in effect) all outstanding unvested shares under performance stock unit awards (“PSUs”) will vest at the greater of target performance or actual performance.