fls.txt
All statements and assumptions contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that do not relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements."


item1.txt
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
For contracts that do not meet the criteria to measure performance as a right to invoice, or under the series guidance, we utilize an Estimate at Completion process to measure progress toward completion.
We typically estimate progress towards completion based on cost incurred or direct labor incurred.
We have one reportable segment.
are primarily due from the U.S. government.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $18.0 million.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
For operating leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability for each period at the present value of any remaining lease payments, discounted by using the rate determined at lease commencement.
In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term.


item2.txt
As of February 15, 2019, all agencies of the U.S. federal government have funding through appropriations through Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019.
We expect future appropriations to be debated with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to reduced bid and proposal spending and amortization of acquisition intangibles offset by increased spending on infrastructure.
We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase during the remainder of 2019 due to the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS) and increased bid and proposal spending.
The decrease in interest expense was due to repayment of debt on our revolving line of credit.
We expect interest expense to increase for the remainder of 2019 due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of KGS.
For additional information, see Note 11 in our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
The primary driver of the increase in our effective tax rate was due to a reduction in the tax benefit related to stock-based compensation.


item3.txt
At March 31, 2019, we had an outstanding balance of $96.0 million on our revolving credit facility.


item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



