fls.txt



item1.txt
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition - On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations.
Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract.
It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled.
The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation.
Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified.


item2.txt
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
The U.S. Government fiscal year (GFY) 2018 appropriations and U.S. GFY 2019 budget request include near term expansions of budgets for the Department of Defense aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, homeland and border security, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors.
However, U.S. GFY 2019 and future years funding appropriations continue to be debated in normal course by Congress with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act (BCA).
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



