fls.txt
All statements and assumptions contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that do not relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements."


item1.txt
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
For contracts that do not meet the criteria to measure performance as a right to invoice under the series guidance, we utilize an Estimate at Completion process to measure progress toward completion.
We typically estimate progress towards completion based on cost incurred or direct labor incurred.
We have one reportable segment.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $4.5 million.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $22.5 million.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term.
The depreciation of the ROU asset increases each year as a result of the declining lease liability balance.


item2.txt
•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts; •Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; •Increased exposure to risks associated with conducting business internationally.
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
As of February 15, 2019, all agencies of the U.S. federal government have funding through appropriations through Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019.
On July 22, 2019, the President and Congressional leadership announced an agreement on a new two-year budget deal, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019.
Both the budget deal and appropriations legislation are subject to passage by Congress.
If Congress is unable to approve appropriations by October 1st, the U.S. Government and its agencies may be subjected to funding restrictions through a Continuing Resolution or, if there is a failure to pass interim funding, potentially a government shutdown.
This change has caused a net increase in the reported cost of services and a net decrease in reported general and administrative expenses in 2019 as compared to 2018; however, total operating costs were not affected by this change.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisition, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions.


item3.txt
At June 30, 2019, we had an outstanding balance of $43.5 million on our revolving credit facility.


item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



