fls.txt



item1.txt
We recommend that you read these condensed consolidated financial statements in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation.
For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered.
Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses.
Essentially, all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Contract modifications impact performance obligations when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $4.5 million.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $8.8 million.
Results for prior periods were reported in accordance with ASC 605.
Revenue for cost-reimbursable contracts were recorded as reimbursable costs were incurred, including an estimated share of the applicable contractual fees earned.
Contract costs were expensed as incurred except for certain limited long-term contracts noted below.


item2.txt
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
For agencies operating under the CR, funding appropriations are expected to be debated by Congress after the midterm elections.
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4.
Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
We expect cost of services as a percentage of revenues to remain steady or slightly increase for the remainder of 2018 due to the potential for higher levels of materials in the last quarter of the year.
The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure.
For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4 to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



