fls.txt
All statements and assumptions contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that do not relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements."


item1.txt
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in the annual financial statements, prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations.
Revenue Recognition - On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
of the performance obligation.
Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized.
Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified.
These estimates were periodically reviewed and revisions were made as required using the cumulative catch-up method.


item2.txt
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
The U.S. GFY 2018 appropriations and U.S. GFY 2019 budget request include near term expansions of budgets for the Department of Defense aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, homeland and border security, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors.
However, U.S. GFY 2019 and future years funding appropriations continue to be debated in normal course by Congress with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act (BCA).
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017.
The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work.


item3.txt
At March 31, 2018, we had $65.5 million outstanding balance on our revolving credit facility.


item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



