fls.txt
All statements and assumptions contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that do not relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements."


item1.txt
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
For contracts that do not meet the criteria to measure performance as a right to invoice under the series guidance, we utilize an Estimate at Completion process to measure progress toward completion.
We typically estimate progress towards completion based on cost incurred or direct labor incurred.
We have one reportable segment.
risk as billed receivables and unbilled receivables are primarily due from the U.S. government.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our operating leases are primarily made up of real estate.
Our variable lease payments do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments.


item2.txt
•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts; •Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; •Increased exposure to risks associated with conducting business internationally.
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
As such, our business is impacted by the overall U.S. government budget and our ability to match our capabilities and offerings to the U.S. government's spending priorities.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings on our revolving line of credit to fund our acquisitions.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
The primary driver of the increase in our effective tax rate was the impact of discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2018, which were more favorable than discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2019.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase slightly during the remainder of 2019 due to increased bid and proposal spending in the last quarter of 2019.
We expect interest expense to decrease slightly for the remainder of 2019 due to increased cash on hand.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
We have been engaged in a project to review and improve the method by which we identify expenditures that qualify for the research and development tax credit.


item3.txt
At September 30, 2019, we had an outstanding balance of $25.0 million on our revolving credit facility.


item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



