fls.txt



item1.txt
We eliminate all significant affiliate accounts and transactions in consolidation.
We are a global supplier of specialty networking solutions built around two global business platforms - Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our comprehensive portfolio of solutions enables customers to transmit and secure data, sound, and video for mission critical applications across complex enterprise and industrial environments.
Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31.
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was March 31, 2019, the 90th day of our fiscal year 2019.
Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days.
The nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018 included 272 and 273 days, respectively.
•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments.
The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
As of September 29, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $9.7 million, $3.9 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions.
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) adopted the final rule under SEC Release No.
33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, amending certain disclosure requirements that were redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded.
Additionally, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements.
Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement.
We implemented SEC Release No.


item2.txt
Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a global supplier of specialty networking solutions built around two global business platforms - Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our comprehensive portfolio of solutions enables customers to transmit and secure data, sound, and video for mission critical applications across complex enterprise and industrial environments.
We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation.
We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators.
We also seek to acquire businesses that we believe can help us achieve these objectives.
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, Indian rupee, and Brazilian real.
Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.
We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



