fls.txt



item1.txt
Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31.
Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days.
The three months ended April 1, 2018 included 91 days.
•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.
We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments.
As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
We are, from time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to our business.
As of March 31, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.3 million, $3.6 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions.
33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, amending certain disclosure requirements that were redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded.
Additionally, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements.
Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement.
We implemented SEC Release No.
2016-13 (“ASU 2016-13”), Financial Instruments - Credit Losses.
The new standard will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2020.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by major product category.
We also generate revenues from providing support and professional services.


item2.txt
Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a signal transmission solutions company built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation.
We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators.
We also seek to acquire businesses that we believe can help us achieve these objectives.
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, Indian rupee, and Brazilian real.
Generally, as the costs of inventory purchases increase due to higher commodity prices, we raise selling prices to customers to cover the increase in costs, resulting in higher sales revenue but a lower gross profit percentage.
Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers.
Comparisons of our results between periods can be impacted by changes in the levels of channel inventory.
As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.
The markets in which we operate can generally be characterized as highly competitive and highly fragmented, with many players.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



