fls.txt



item1.txt
We eliminate all significant affiliate accounts and transactions in consolidation.
•Include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31.
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was March 31, 2019, the 90th day of our fiscal year 2019.
Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days.
•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018.
We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments.
The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
We are, from time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to our business.
As of June 30, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.4 million, $3.6 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions.
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) adopted the final rule under SEC Release No.
33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, amending certain disclosure requirements that were redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded.
Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement.
The analysis should present a reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance of each period presented.
We implemented SEC Release No.
2016-13 (“ASU 2016-13”), Financial Instruments - Credit Losses.


item2.txt
Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a signal transmission solutions company built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation.
We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators.
We also seek to acquire businesses that we believe can help us achieve these objectives.
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, Indian rupee, and Brazilian real.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S. As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.
Generally, as the costs of inventory purchases increase due to higher commodity prices, we raise selling prices to customers to cover the increase in costs, resulting in higher sales revenue but a lower gross profit percentage.
Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers.
As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



