fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
We eliminate all significant affiliate accounts and transactions in consolidation.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31.
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was April 1, 2018, the 91st day of our fiscal year 2018.
Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days.
We evaluated these errors and concluded that they were not material to any of our previously issued interim financial statements and did not require restatement of the quarters.
•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments.
The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations.
We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes.
We have established liabilities for environmental and legal contingencies that are probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable, the amounts of which are currently not material.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
As of September 30, 2018, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.3 million, $3.2 million, and $2.3 million, respectively.
On July 5, 2011, our wholly-owned subsidiary, PPC Broadband, Inc. (PPC), filed an action for patent infringement against Corning Optical Communications RF LLC (Corning).


item2.txt
Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a signal transmission solutions company built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators.
We also seek to acquire businesses that we believe can help us achieve these objectives.
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, and Brazilian real.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The Complaint alleged that Corning infringed two of PPC’s patents - U.S. Patent Nos.
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded approximately $61.8 million, plus accrued interest.
In April 2018, Corning filed a petition for re-hearing, which was denied in May 2018.
We recorded the $62.1 million of cash received as a pre-tax gain from patent litigation during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Prior to the third quarter of 2018, we had not recognized any amounts in our consolidated financial statements related to this matter.
We are also a party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions that are incidental to our operations.
There may be additional risks that impact our business that we currently do not recognize as, or that are not currently, material to our business.


