fls.txt



item1.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training, and applications support.
However, in our opinion, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for and at the end of the interim periods.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support.
We adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on November 1, 2018, the start of our 2019 fiscal year, and elected the modified retrospective method as of the date of adoption.
For each contract, we identify our performance obligations, which is delivering goods or services, determine the transaction price, allocate the contract transaction price to each of the performance obligations (when applicable), and recognize the revenue when (or as) the performance obligation to the customer is fulfilled.
Depending upon geographic location, after shipment, a machine may be installed at the customer’s facilities by a distributor, independent contractor or by one of our service technicians.
For our five-axis machines that we install, we estimate the fair value of the installation performance obligation and recognize that installation revenue on a prorata basis over the period of the installation process.
We consider these services to be perfunctory within the context of the contract, as the value of these services typically does not rise to a material level as a component of the total contract value.
Service fees from maintenance contracts are deferred and recognized in earnings on a prorata basis over the term of the contract and are generally sold on a stand-alone basis.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a few major financial institutions.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of July 31, 2019, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from August 2019 through July 2020.


item2.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments, principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Sales and service fees for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $58.5 million, a decrease of $20.3 million, or 26%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of $1.9 million, or 2%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in sales for the third quarter fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines from a U.S. machine tool distributor acquired by Hurco in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 located in California, one of the largest machine tool markets in the U.S., and increased customer demand for Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi vertical milling machines in the U.S. European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 31% compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The decrease in European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to a reduced volume of shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany and the United Kingdom.
The decrease in Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines in China and an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems.
Sales of computerized machine tools and computer control systems and software decreased by 29% and 16%, respectively, for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to a reduced volume of shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines.
Sales of service parts decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, primarily due to a reduction in aftermarket sales of service parts for all three product lines, Hurco, Takumi and Milltronics.
Orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $53.0 million, a decrease of $23.0 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $1.8 million, or 2%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.


item3.txt
We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar).


item4.txt



part2.txt
We maintain insurance policies for such matters, and we record insurance recoveries when we determine such recovery to be probable.


