fls.txt



item1.txt
However, in our opinion, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for and at the end of the interim periods.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of April 30, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from May 2018 through April 2019.
At April 30, 2018, we had approximately $1.4 million of losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Included in this amount were $339,000 of unrealized losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through April 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges under the FASB guidance and, as a result, changes in their fair value are reported currently as Other expense, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income consistent with the transaction gain or loss on the related receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of April 30, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, South African Rand, and New Taiwan Dollar with set maturity dates ranging from May 2018 through October 2018.
We recognized a gain of $32,000 for the three months ended April 30, 2017 as a result of contracts closed early that were deemed ineffective for financial reporting purposes and did not qualify as cash flow hedges.
We recognized a gain of $168,000 for the six months ended April 30, 2017 as a result of contracts closed early that were deemed ineffective for financial reporting purposes and did not qualify as cash flow hedges.
The 2016 Equity Plan replaced the Hurco Companies, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2008 Plan”) and is the only active plan under which equity awards may be made by us to our employees and non-employee directors.


item2.txt
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
Sales and service fees for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were $70.4 million, an increase of $12.2 million, or 21%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $4.9 million, or 8%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in sales was primarily attributable to an increased sales volume of entry-level vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco and Milltronics product lines.
European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 14%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in the United Kingdom and Italy.
Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 22%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China and India, both of which are sales regions Hurco has been targeting for growth.
† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems.
Sales of service parts increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket sales in the Americas and Europe.
Service fees increased slightly in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to increased demand for aftermarket service in Germany, the United Kingdom and the Americas.
Orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were a record $79.9 million, an increase of $16.6 million, or 26%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $5.4 million, or 9%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 13%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.


item3.txt
Interest on borrowings on our credit facilities are variable and tied to prevailing domestic and foreign interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We maintain insurance policies for such matters, and we record insurance recoveries when we determine such recovery to be probable.


