fls.txt



item1.txt
However, in our opinion, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for and at the end of the interim periods.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of January 31, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from February 2018 through January 2019.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. At January 31, 2018, we had approximately $2.2 million of losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Included in this amount were $1.2 million of unrealized losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through January 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
We selected the forward method under Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance related to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of January 31, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, South African Rand, and New Taiwan Dollar with set maturity dates ranging from February 2018 through October 2018.
The 2016 Equity Plan replaced the Hurco Companies, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2008 Plan”) and is the only active plan under which equity awards may be made by us to our employees and non-employee directors.
The total number of shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to awards under the 2016 Equity Plan is 856,048, which includes 386,048 shares remaining available for future grants under the 2008 Plan as of March 10, 2016, the date our shareholders approved the 2016 Equity Plan.
The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors has the authority to determine the officers, directors and key employees who will be granted awards under the 2016 Equity Plan; designate the number of shares subject to each award; determine the terms and conditions upon which awards will be granted; and prescribe the form and terms of award agreements.
No stock option may be exercised more than ten years after the date of grant or such shorter period as the Compensation Committee may determine at the date of grant.
The market value of a share of our common stock, for purposes of the 2016 Equity Plan, is the closing sale price as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the date in question or, if not a trading day, on the last preceding trading date.


item2.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
During the first three months of fiscal 2018, approximately 56% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments – principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Sales and service fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were $68.4 million, an increase of $19.7 million, or 40%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $4.4 million, or 9%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 50%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 15%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Italy.
Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 41%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 8%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.


item3.txt
Interest on borrowings on our credit facilities are variable and tied to prevailing domestic and foreign interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Pursuant to applicable accounting rules, we accrue the minimum liability for each known claim when the estimated outcome is a range of possible loss and no one amount within that range is more likely than another.


