 ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
  The discussion of the financial condition and results of operations of the Company set forth below should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form10-Q.
This Form10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The statements contained in this Form10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27a of the Securities Act and Section 21e of the Exchange Act.
When used in this Form10-Q, or in the documents incorporated by reference into this Form10-Q, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “intend” and “expect” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, the statements regarding the Company’s strategy, future sales, future expenses, future liquidity and capital resources.
All forward-looking statements in this Form10-Q are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this Form10-Q, and the Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.
The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this Form10-Q.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences (“Cautionary Statements”) include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1. Business — “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in the Company’s Annual Report on Form10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2017, which are incorporated by reference into this Form 10-Q.
All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company, or persons acting on the Company’s behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the Cautionary Statements.
  Overview
 Issuer Direct Corporation (Issuer Direct Corporation and its subsidiaries are hereinafter collectively referred to as “Issuer Direct”, the “Company”, “We” or “Our” unless otherwise noted).
Our corporate offices are located at 500 Perimeter Park Drive, Suite D, Morrisville, North Carolina, 27560.
 We announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website, Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") filings, investor events, news and earnings releases, public conference calls, webcasts and social media.
We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services and other related matters.
It is possible that information we post on some of these channels could be deemed to be material information.
Therefore, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in our company to review the information we post to all of our channels, including our social media accounts.
 Issuer Direct is an industry-leading global communications and compliance company focusing on the needs of corporate issuers.
Issuer Direct's principal platform, Platform id.™, empowers users by thoughtfully integrating the most relevant tools, technologies and products, thus eliminating the complexity associated with producing and distributing their business communications and financial information.
 We work with a diverse customer base, which not only includes corporate issuers, but also professional firms, such as investor relations and public relations firms, and the accounting and the legal communities.
We also sell products and services to others in the financial services industry, including brokerage firms, banks and mutual funds.
Corporate issuers and their service providers utilize Platform id.
and related services from document creation all the way to dissemination to regulatory bodies, platforms and shareholders.
  Platform and Technology
 As we continue our transition to a cloud-based subscription business, we expect the Platform and Technology portion of our business to continue to increase over the next several years, both in terms of overall revenue and as compared to the Services portion of our business.
Platform and Technology revenue grew to 64% of total revenue for the third quarter of 2018, compared to 55% of our revenue for 2017 and approximately 44% of our revenue in 2016.
Our ACCESSWIRE® news business offering represented a majority of the year over year growth in our Platform and Technology revenue during 2017 and continues to lead our transition to a full platform solution.
Also contributing to the growth in the percentage of Platform and Technology revenue is our focus on our platform first engagement strategy and converting customers which historically relied on us for services work to utilizing Platform id.
 As part of our Platform and Technology strategy, we have been working with several select stock exchanges, whereby we make available certain parts of our platform, under agreement, to integrate our offerings.
Such partnerships should yield increased exposure to a targeted customer base that could impact our revenue and overall brand in the market.
  Platform id.
 Platform id.
is our primary cloud-based subscription platform that efficiently and effectively helps manage the events of our customers seeking to distribute their messaging to key constituents, investors, markets and regulatory systems around the globe.
Currently, Platform id.
consists of several related but distinct shareholder communications and compliance modules.
Certain of these capabilities were historically part of our disclosure management and shareholder communications offerings, but are now included into our fully integrated platform.
 While the complete platform is available for a single subscription fee, companies also have the flexibility to choose one or more of the specific modules that fit their needs.
  Communications Modules
 Our press release offering, which is marketed under the brand, ACCESSWIRE, is a cost-effective Fair Disclosure, Regulation FD, news dissemination and media outreach service.
The ACCESSWIRE product offering focuses on press release distribution for both private and publicly held companies globally.
ACCESSWIRE is fast becoming a competitive alternative to the traditional newswires because we have been able to integrate customer editing features and improve our targeting and growing analytics reporting systems, which we believe will enable us to add new customers for the remainder of 2018 and beyond.
We have also been able to maintain flexible pricing by offering our customers the option to pay per release or enter into longer-term subscriptions.
Currently, approximately 60% of our ACCESSWIRE revenue is on a subscription basis.
 On July 3, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Filing Services Canada Inc. (“FSCwire”), which not only increased our customer base, but more importantly increased our global footprint, distribution capabilities and editorial team.
We recently completed the integration of FSCwire and rebranded it as ACCESSWIRE Canada, and will now begin to focus on offering those customers the full suite of products included in Platform id.
 We will continue to brand our press release offerings under the name ACCESSWIRE, which we believe will solidify our market position in the newswire business.
Our ACCESSWIRE news editing offering is available within our core Platform id.
subscription or as a stand-alone module.
 ACCESSWIRE is dependent upon several key partners for news distribution, some of which are also partners that we rely on for other investor outreach offerings.
A disruption in any of these partnerships could have a materially adverse impact on our business.
 Platform id.
also includes our targeting and outreach database and intelligence analytics module.
This module is centered around both our shareholder communications and news distribution offerings.
We anticipate the analytics and peer review components will become a focal point for Platform id.
in the future, as customers become increasingly interested in peer performance and real-time alerts to vital data points throughout the day.
 We believe our data-set is an attractive option for both investor relations and public relations firms and for customers looking for an alternative to current products in the market, based on price, as well as data quality and quantity.
During the fourth quarter of 2017, our dataset and analytics were integrated into our ACCESSWIRE offering as a way to add value and expand distribution via highly targeted lists of professionals from the dataset.
We expect this to increase future ACCESSWIRE revenues per press release as well as ACCESSWIRE subscriptions throughout 2018 and beyond.
 Over the past year, we have been focused on refining the model of digital distribution of our customers’ message to the investment community and beyond.
This has been accomplished by integrating our shareholder outreach module, formerly known as Investor Network, into and with Platform id.
Most of the customers subscribing to this module today are historical PrecisionIR (“PIR”) – Annual Report Service (“ARS”) users, as well as new customers purchasing the entire Platform id.
subscription.
We have migrated some of the customers from the traditional ARS business into this new digital subscription business.
However, there can be no assurances these customers will continue using this digital platform in the long term if market conditions or shareholder interest is not present.
 The earnings event industry is a highly competitive space with the majority of the business being driven from practitioners in the investor relations and communications firms.
We have invested time and financial resources developing and integrating systems and processes within Platform id.
by creating an application programming interface (“API”).
Initially, this has been broadly distributed via our Investor Network platform, with expectations that partners and publishers will license this dataset for their platforms in the future.
We believe this offering will further increase our brand awareness.
This API license will allow publishers to query an industry or a single companies' current and past earnings calls and present those webcasts on their platforms, under a subscription to Platform id.
Additionally, as a commitment to broadening the reach of our webcast platform, all events will be broadcast live within our shareholder outreach module, which will drive new audiences and give companies the ability to view their analytics and engagement of each event.
We believe these analytics will increase the demand for our webcasting platform among the corporate issuer community.
 Our investor relations content network is another component of Platform id., which is used to create the investor relations’ tab of a public company’s website.
This investor relations content network is a robust series of data feeds including news feeds, stock feeds, fundamentals, regulatory filings, corporate governance and many other components that are aggregated from a majority of the major exchanges and news distribution outlets around the world.
Customers can subscribe to one or more of these data feeds from us or as a component of a fully designed and hosted website for pre-IPO, reporting companies and partners seeking to display our content on their corporate sites.
The clear benefit to our investor relations module is its integration into and with the rest of Platform id., meaning companies can produce content for public distribution and it is automatically linked to their corporate site, distributed to targeted groups and placed into and with our data feed partners.
  Compliance Modules
 Platform id.’s disclosure reporting module is a document conversion, editing and filing offering, which is designed for reporting companies and professionals seeking to insource the document drafting, editing and filing processes to the SEC’s EDGAR system and SEDAR, which is the Canadian equivalent of EDGAR.
This module is available in both a secure public cloud within our Platform id.
subscription, as well as in a private cloud option for corporations, mutual funds and the legal community looking to further enhance their internal document process.
We believe that once this module is fully marketed and adopted by our customers, we will see a negative impact on our legacy disclosure conversion services business in the future.
However, the margins associated with our Platform and Technology business compared to our Services business are higher and align with our long-term strategy, and as such, we believe this module will have a positive impact on our compliance business.
 Toward the latter part of 2017, we completed upgrades to our disclosure reporting product to include tagging functionality that meets newly mandated SEC requirements.
On June 28, 2018, the SEC voted to adopt rules mandating the use of Inline XBRL (Inline Extensible Business Reporting Language or “iXBRL”) for the submission of financial statement information to the SEC.
The new requirements for iXBRL will have a three-year phase in beginning for large accelerated filers that use U.S. GAAP to be compliant for fiscal periods ending on or after June 15, 2019, for accelerated filers to begin reporting for fiscal periods ending on or after June 15, 2020 and for all other filers to begin reporting for fiscal periods ending on or after June 15, 2021.
These upgrades also include meeting new SEC mandates for foreign filers that compile financial statements using International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) to be able to utilize our cloud-based platform.
Foreign filers with fiscal year’s ending on or after December 15, 2017, are now required to begin reporting their financial statements in XBRL with the SEC in 2018.
Issuer Direct's Platform id.
has adopted the new IFRS taxonomy into and with its new disclosure upgrade for iXBRL to ensure our customers are able to meet these new mandates.
 Our whistleblower module is an add-on product within Platform id.
This system delivers secure notifications and basic incident workflow management processes that align with a company’s corporate governance whistleblower policy.
As a supported and subsidized bundle product of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) offerings, we hope we will gain relationships with new IPO customers and other larger cap customers listed on the NYSE.
 A valued subscription add-on in our Platform id.
offering is the ability for our customers to gain access to real-time information of their shareholders, stock ledgers, reports, and issue new shares from our cloud-based stock transfer module.
Managing the capitalization table of a public company or pre-IPO company is the cornerstone of corporate governance and transparency, and as such companies and community banks have chosen us to assist with their stock transfer needs, including bond offerings and dividend management.
This is an industry which has experienced declining overall revenues as it was affected by the replacement of paper certificates with digital certificates.
However, we have recently been focused on selling subscriptions of the stock transfer component of our platform, allowing customers to gain access to our cloud-based system in order to move shares or query shareholders, which has resulted in a more efficient process for both our customers and us.
 On October 2, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Interwest Transfer Company, Inc. (“Interwest”), a company specializing in stock registrar and transfer agent services.
Since the acquisition, we have been combining the stock information of both the legacy Issuer Direct customers and the acquired customers from Interwest onto our platform.
We have also begun and will continue to market the other modules of Platform id.
and services to these new customers to help them meet all of their shareholder communication and compliance needs.
  Services
 Our investor outreach and engagement offering, formerly known as the ARS, was acquired from PIR.
The ARS business has existed for over 20 years primarily as a physical hard copy delivery service of annual reports and prospectuses.
We continue to operate a portion of this legacy system for those who opt to take advantage of physical delivery of material.
Additionally, we continue to attempt to migrate the install base over to subscriptions of our digital outreach engagement module within Platform id.
We believe we will continue to see further attrition of both customers and revenues in this category as we focus our efforts on our Platform and Technology business.
  Results of Operations
  Revenues
 Total revenue increased by $324,000, or 11%, to $3,255,000 during the three-month period ended September 30, 2018, as compared to $2,931,000 during the same period of 2017.
Total revenue increased by $1,355,000, or 15%, to $10,584,000 during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018, as compared to $9,229,000 during the same period of 2017.
Revenue from customers obtained from acquisitions of Interwest and FSCwire totaled $526,000 and $1,325,000 during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, of which $46,000 and $142,000 came from additional subscriptions to our platform or services cross sold to those customers.
 Platform and Technology revenue increased $309,000, or 17%, and $1,077,000, or 20%, during the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods of 2017.
A significant portion of the increase is due to our ACCESSWIRE news distribution platform, which increased $105,000 and $570,000 during the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods of the prior year.
A majority of the increase in news distribution revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2018 is due to the acquisition of FSCwire.
For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018, the increase is attributable to our investment in increased sales staff and distribution over the past twelve months.
During the quarter, we continued to focus our selling efforts on bundled subscriptions of our cloud-based offerings included in Platform id., which also lead to higher overall revenue during both the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018.
Lastly, additional transfer agent module revenue, primarily due to the addition of Interwest customers, as well as additional webcasting revenue as a result of offering our webcasting product to investor relations conferences contributed to the overall increase in our Platform and Technology revenue.
These increases were offset by a decline in revenue from our shareholder outreach offering due to continued client attrition as revenue of this offering is typically tied-in with contracts of our annual report distribution services.
 Services revenue increased $15,000, or 1%, and $278,000, or 7%, during the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the same periods of the prior year.
The increase for both periods is primarily associated with increases in transfer agent services due to the addition of Interwest customers as well an increase in the timing of corporate actions and directives for our legacy Issuer Direct customers.
These increases were partially offset by continued decline in revenue from our ARS services, as a result of continued client attrition as customers elect to leave the service or transition to digital fulfillment.
We also experienced a decline in our compliance services due to continued pricing pressure in those markets and a shift of some of this revenue to the Platform and Technology revenue stream.
 No customers accounted for more than 10% of revenue during the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 or 2017.
  Revenue Backlog
 At September 30, 2018, our deferred revenue balance was $1,389,000, which is a 57% increase over the balance of $887,000 at December 31, 2017.
Deferred revenue, which we expect to recognize over the next twelve months, primarily consists of advance billings for subscriptions of our cloud-based products and annual contracts for legacy ARS services.
The increase since December 31, 2017 is primarily due to the sale of new subscriptions of Platform id., with annualized contract value of $907,000, to 89 net new or existing customers during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
  Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin
 Cost of revenues consists primarily of direct labor costs, third party licensing and amortization of capitalized software costs related to platform subscriptions in our Platform and Technology stream and direct labor costs, warehousing, logistics, print production materials, postage, and outside services directly related to the delivery of services to customers in our Services stream.
Cost of revenues increased by $160,000, or 19%, and $556,000, or 22%, during the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods of 2017.
Overall gross margin increased $164,000, or 8%, and $799,000, or 12%, during the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods of 2017.
However, during this period, gross margin percentage decreased to 70% and 71% for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, from 72% and 73% during the same periods of the prior year.
The largest single component of the increase in cost of sales and resulting decrease in gross margin percentage was due to an increase in amortization of capitalized software costs of $117,000 and $373,000, during the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, related to our platforms licensed to customers.
Both amounts represent 4% of total revenue for their respective periods.
 Gross margin percentage from Platform and Technology was 77% and 79% for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to 83% and 84% for the same periods of 2017.
The decrease in gross margin percentage is primarily due to an increase in amortization of capitalized software costs of $117,000 and $373,000, during the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, related to our platforms licensed to customers, as well as, increased costs as the Company continues to invest in expanding its distribution network for press releases.
The increases in amortization expense represents 6% of Platform and Technology revenue for each respective period.
 Gross margins from our Services revenue increased to 57% and 60% during the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to 55% and 58% during the same periods of 2017.
The increase is primarily the result of the additional transfer agent revenue resulting from the addition of Interwest customers and an increase in corporate actions and directives.
  Operating Expenses
  General and Administrative Expense
 General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, stock-based compensation, insurance, fees for professional services, general corporate expenses and facility and equipment expenses.
General and administrative expenses increased $186,000, or 25%, and $371,000, or 15%, during the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods of 2017.
The increase is primarily due to an increase in stock compensation as well as the inclusion of general and administrative expenses for Interwest and FSCwire during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, which were not included in general and administrative expenses for the same period of the prior year.
 As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses were 29% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 26% for the same period of 2017 and 27% for both the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
  Sales and Marketing Expenses
 Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, stock-based compensation, sales commissions, advertising expenses, tradeshow expenses and marketing expenses.
Sales and marketing expenses increased $110,000, or 18%, and $352,000, or 18%, for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods of 2017.
The increase resulted from an investment which is directly attributable to increasing headcount in our sales and marketing organization, as well as, expanding our news distribution capabilities, offset by a decrease in tradeshow expenses.
 As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses were 22% during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 21% for the same period of the prior year and 21% for both the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
  Product Development Expenses
 As a percentage of revenue, product development expenses were 10% and 9% for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to 5% and 4% during the same periods of 2017.
  Depreciation and Amortization
 Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $53,000, or 52%, and $129,000, or 42%, during the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods of 2017.
The increase is due to amortization of intangible assets acquired in the Interwest and FSCwire acquisitions.
  Other expense
 For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, other expense is primarily the result of the loss on the sale of stock received, in lieu of cash, to settle an outstanding receivable.
  Interest income (expense), net
 Interest income (expense), net, represents the non-cash interest associated with the present value of the remaining anniversary payments of the Interwest acquisition, partially offset by interest income on deposit accounts.
  Income tax (benefit) expense
 We recognized income tax expense of $32,000 and $246,000 during the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to $174,000 and $428,000 during the same periods of 2017.
At the end of each interim period, we estimate the effective tax rate we expect to be applicable for the full fiscal year and this rate is applied to our results for the year-to-date period, and then adjusted for any discrete period items.
For the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the variance between the Company’s effective tax rate and the applicable U.S. statutory rate is primarily attributable to state income taxes, offset by excess stock-based compensation tax benefits and tax credits.
  Net Income
 Net income for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, was $86,000 and $772,000, respectively, compared to $308,000 and $1,126,000 for the same periods of 2017.
 Although we achieved increases in revenue and gross margin, these increases were offset by higher operating expenses, primarily due to further investment in our business to increase future revenue and build scale through acquisition, further development of our cloud-based products and increased headcount in our sales and marketing teams.
  Liquidity and Capital Resources
 As of September 30, 2018, we had $19,444,000 in cash and cash equivalents and $1,643,000 in net accounts receivable.
Current liabilities at September 30, 2018, totaled $2,599,000 including our accounts payable, deferred revenue, accrued payroll liabilities, income taxes payable, current portion of remaining payments for Interwest and other accrued expenses.
At September 30, 2018, our current assets exceeded our current liabilities by $19,162,000.
 Effective September 1, 2017, we renewed our Line of Credit, which increased the amount of funds available for borrowing from $2,000,000 to $2,500,000.
The interest rate remained at LIBOR plus 2.50%.
As of September 30, 2018, the interest rate was 4.67% and we did not owe any amounts on the Line of Credit.
 On August 17, 2018, the Company completed a secondary public offering of 806,451 shares of its common stock at a price to the public of $15.50 per share.
In addition, the Company granted the underwriter a 30-day option to purchase an additional 120,967 shares of its common stock to cover over-allotments, which were sold on August 24, 2018.
The aggregate gross proceeds of the offering were $14,375,000.
Closing costs of $1,052,000, which consisted of underwriting commissions, legal and accounting fees and other offering expenses were netted against the proceeds, which resulted in net proceeds to the Company of $13,323,000, The net proceeds of the offering are included in Additional paid-in capital on the Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018.
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for working capital and general corporate purposes and may also use a portion of the net proceeds to in-license, acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, technologies or assets.
  The following statements and certain statements made elsewhere in this document are based upon current expectations.
These statements are forward looking and are subject to factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested here, including, without limitation, demand for and acceptance of our services, new developments, competition and general economic or market conditions, particularly in the domestic and international capital markets.
Refer also to the Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward Looking Statements included in this report.
 Overall, the demand for our platforms continues to be stable in the majority of the segments we serve.
In a portion of our business, we will continue to see demand shift from traditional printed and service-based engagements to a cloud-based subscription model, as well as digital distribution offerings.
We believe we are positioned well in this space to be both competitive and agile to deliver these solutions to the market.
As we have seen over the last several quarters, the transition to digital platforms has had a negative effect on our revenue in the Service portion of our business and this is a trend we expect will continue over the next few quarters.
 One of our competitive strengths is that we have embraced cloud computing early on in our strategy.
The transition to a subscription model has been and will continue to be key for the long-term sustainable growth management expects from our new platforms.
●
Expand our Platform and Technology business development and sales team,
●
Expand customer base,
●
Continue to migrate acquired customers to our current platform,
●
Continue to expand our newswire distribution,
●
Invest in technology advancements and upgrades,
●
Generate profitable sustainable growth,
●
Generate cash flows from operations.
 We believe there is significant demand for our products among the middle, small and micro-cap markets globally, as they seek to find better platforms and tools to disseminate and communicate their respective messages.
We believe we have the product sets, platforms and capacity to meet their requirements.
 We have invested and will continue to invest in our product sets, platforms and intellectual property development via internal development and acquisitions.
These developments are key to our overall offerings in the market and necessary to keep our competitive advantages and sustain the next round of growth that management believes it can achieve.
If we are successful in this development effort, we believe we can achieve increases in revenues per user as we move through 2018 and beyond.
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to stockholders.
 ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS.
 None, except as previously disclosed on the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 5, 2018.
