fls.txt



item1.txt
As of and during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions.
Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement.
We generate revenues primarily by selling products that provide secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied.
Adjustments to revenue for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods were not significant during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
Depending on the terms of an arrangement, we may defer the recognition of some or all of the consideration received because we have to satisfy a future obligation.
As of September 29, 2019, total deferred revenue was $99.2 million, and of this amount, $86.5 million is expected to be recognized within the next twelve months, and the remaining $12.7 million is long-term and is expected to be recognized over a period greater than twelve months.
Opterna International Corp. We acquired 100% of the shares of Opterna International Corp. (Opterna) on April 15, 2019 for a preliminary purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $51.7 million.
Of the $51.7 million purchase price, $45.5 million and $0.4 million was paid on April 15, 2019 and September 25, 2019, respectively, with cash on hand.
The maximum earnout consideration is $25.0 million, but based upon a third party valuation specialist using certain assumptions in a discounted cash flow model, the estimated fair value of the earnout included The above purchase price allocation is preliminary, and is subject to revision as additional information about the fair value of individual assets and liabilities becomes available.
A change in the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired or noncontrolling interests will change the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill.
During the third quarter 2019, we recorded measurement-period adjustments that decreased goodwill by approximately $9.4 million primarily for changes in the fair value of the earnout.
For purposes of the above allocation, we based our preliminary estimate of the fair values for the acquired inventory, intangible assets, and noncontrolling interests on valuation studies performed by a third party valuation firm.
We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the preliminary fair value of the identifiable intangible assets (Level 3 valuation).
Our preliminary estimate of the fair values for the noncontrolling interests were based on the comparable EBITDA multiple valuation technique (Level 3 valuation).
The useful life for the customer relationship intangible asset was based on our forecasts of estimated sales from recurring customers.
The useful life of the backlog intangible asset was based on our estimate of when the ordered items would ship and control of the items transfers.


item2.txt
Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
We performed an interim impairment test on our Grass Valley reporting unit, which resulted in a total goodwill and other asset impairment charge of $342.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019.
The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions.
We recognized $3.1 million and $5.6 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively.
The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions.
The integration of these businesses is complete, and thus, we do not expect to incur any more costs for this program.
On July 15, 2019, all outstanding Preferred Stock was automatically converted into shares of Belden common stock at the conversion rate of 132.50, resulting in the issuance of approximately 6.9 million shares of Belden common stock.
During the fourth quarter of 2019, we committed to a plan to sell Grass Valley, and at such time, met all of the criteria to classify the assets and liabilities of this business as held for sale.
Gross profit decreased $25.5 million and $47.9 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



