item1.txt
The condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Logitech and its subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements. They should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 26, 2017. 
In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2015-11, "Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (Topic 330)" ("ASU 2015-11"). Topic 330 previously required an entity to measure inventory at the lower of cost or market, with market value represented by replacement cost, net realizable value or net realizable value less a normal profit margin. ASU 2015-11 requires an entity to measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value and is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company expects to complete its analysis of Topic 606 and reasonably estimate the impact to its consolidated financial statements when its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018 is filed. The Company will continue to monitor additional changes, modifications, clarifications or interpretations being undertaken by the FASB, which may impact its current conclusions. It is possible that during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company may identify additional areas which may result in material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
The fair values of developed technology and trade name were estimated using the relief-from-royalty method, an income approach (Level 3), which estimates the cost savings that accrue to the owner of the intangible assets that would otherwise be payable as royalties or license fees on revenues earned through the use of the asset. A royalty rate is applied to the projected revenues associated with the intangible assets to determine the amount of savings, which is then discounted to determine the fair value. The developed technology and trade name were valued using royalty rates of 10% and 2%, respectively, and both were discounted at a rate of 13%.
The fair value of customer relationships was estimated using the excess earnings method, an income approach (Level 3), which converts projected revenues and costs into cash flows. To reflect the fact that certain other assets contributed to the cash flows generated, the returns for these contributory assets were removed to arrive at estimated cash flows solely attributable to the customer relationships, which were discounted at a rate of 13%.
Share equivalents attributable to outstanding stock options and restricted stock units of 0.5 million and 1.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 1.1 million and 2.8 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, were anti-dilutive and excluded from the calculation of diluted net income per share.
The income tax benefit in the respective period primarily consists of tax benefit related to the share-based compensation expense for the period and direct tax benefit realized, including net excess tax benefits recognized from share-based awards vested or exercised during the period. The income tax benefit is reduced by income tax provision resulting from remeasurement of applicable federal deferred tax assets due to the enactment of H.R.1, also known as the "Tax Cuts and Jobs Act" ("the Tax Act") in the United States on December 22, 2017. See "Note 5 - Income Taxes" for more information. 
The income tax provision for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $20.0 million based on an effective income tax rate of 19.9% of pre-tax income, compared to an income tax provision of $1.6 million based on an effective income tax rate of 1.7% of pre-tax income for the three months ended December 31, 2016. The income 
ASC 740 requires recognition of the effects of tax law changes in the period of enactment. Notwithstanding that the effective date of the Tax Act for most provisions is January 1, 2018, such effects must be recognized in December 2017 financial statements. In accordance to the new tax legislation, the Company applied a blended federal income tax rate of 31.6% to its operations in the United States effective at the beginning of the fiscal year based on a pro-rated percentage of the number of days before and after January 1, 2018. Furthermore, the Company recorded an income tax charge of $19.9 million from the estimated remeasurement of federal deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2017 to reflect the effects of the enacted changes in tax rate and an income tax benefit of $4.1 million from assessment of valuation allowance against tax credits due to changes in tax laws. These amounts account for the change in the effective income tax rate in the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The estimated remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities was based on tax rates generally at 31.6% and 21% depending on the timing of when the individual deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to recover or settle in the future. The net provisional charge from deferred tax remeasurement and assessment of valuation allowance is based on currently available information and interpretations which are continuing to evolve. The Company continues to analyze additional information and guidance related to certain aspects of the Tax Act, such as limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation, conformity or changes by state taxing authorities in response to the Tax Act, and the final determination of the net deferred tax assets subject to the remeasurement and related impacts to the assessment of valuation allowance. The prospects of supplemental legislation or regulatory processes to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, or evolving technical interpretations of the tax law, may cause the final impact from the Tax Act to differ from the recorded amounts. The Company continues to appropriately refine such amounts within the measurement period allowed by Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No.118, which will be completed no later than the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The change in the effective income tax rate in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year is primarily due to the recognition of excess tax benefits of $10.8 million after adoption of ASU 2016-09 and income tax benefit from the reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations are largely offset by income tax provision from the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities in the third quarter. In the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, there was a discrete income tax benefit of $6.0 million and $7.9 million, respectively, from the reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations. In the same periods ended December 31, 2016, the income tax benefit from the reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations was $9.4 million and $11.1 million, respectively. 
The Company had $34.4 million in non-current income taxes payable and $0.1 million in current income taxes payable, including interest and penalties, related to its income tax liability for uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2017, compared to $51.8 million in non-current income taxes payable and $1.5 million in current income taxes payable as of March 31, 2017. The Company applied to a settlement program and paid $1.9 million to the tax authorities in a foreign jurisdiction in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The marketable securities for the Company's deferred compensation plan are recorded at a fair value of $18.0 million and $15.0 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, based on quoted market prices. Quoted market prices are observable inputs that are classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy. Unrealized trading gains (losses) related to trading securities for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were not material and are included in other income (expense), net in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations.
The Company’s non-marketable cost method investments, and non-financial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at fair value only upon initial recognition or if an impairment is recognized. There were no material impairments of long-lived assets during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 or 2016.


item2.txt
On August 11, 2017 (the "Acquisition Date"), we acquired certain assets and liabilities constituting the ASTRO Gaming business ("ASTRO") from AG Acquisition Corporation for a purchase price of $85.0 million in cash (the "ASTRO Acquisition"). ASTRO is a leading console gaming brand with a history of producing award-winning headsets for professional gamers and enthusiasts. 
Our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased 22% and 15%, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, due to stronger net sales across all regions. The results of operations for ASTRO have been included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations from the Acquisition Date. The ASTRO business is highly seasonal and it typically generates approximately half of its fiscal year sales in the third quarter. 
For the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, ASTRO contributed $33.5 million and $36.2 million to net sales, respectively, representing approximately 4% of our net sales for the three-month period and 2% for the nine-month period. For the nine months ended December 31, 2017, Saitek, which was acquired on September 15, 2016, contributed $8.4 million of sales increase, compared with the nine months ended December 31, 2016. 
We added a new third-party logistics provider and distribution center in North America in the second half of the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 to support our growth. We experienced significant challenges in the transition from one distribution center to two, operating procedures at the newer distribution center, and in ramping fulfillment in the second quarter and early third quarter of fiscal year 2018. As a result, we incurred additional cost on freight and warehouse-related expense. We have started transition back to only one distribution center for North America and the process is expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018. 
Our gross margin for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 decreased to 35.3% from 36.4% for the nine months ended December 31, 2016. The decrease in gross margin was primarily driven by an increase in logistics costs including additional costs from the transition of the distribution center in North America, an increase in promotions related to product transition, and product mix, partially offset by product cost reductions and lower variable compensation based on operational metrics in the recent quarter. 
We believe our future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, including gaming, digital music devices, video and computing. The following discussion represents key trends specific to our market opportunities.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) (“Disclosure Controls”) as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this “Report”) required by Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b). The controls evaluation was conducted under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”). Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act, such as this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to reasonably assure that this information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the CEO and CFO, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this Report, the Company’s Disclosure Controls and procedures were not effective as a result of the material weakness that existed in our internal control over financial reporting as described below.


part2.txt
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories. We may not achieve the cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these efforts, and the success or failure of such efforts may cause our operating results to fluctuate and to be difficult to predict.
•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. Dollars, whereas a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are in other currencies. We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements. However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited.
Our product categories are characterized by short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology, dynamic consumer demand and evolving industry standards. As a result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive.
If we do not execute on these factors successfully, products that we introduce or technologies or standards that we adopt may not gain widespread commercial acceptance, and our business and operating results could suffer. In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected.
The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process is also lengthy and costly. There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments. If we fail to accurately anticipate technological trends or our users’ needs or preferences, are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost-effective and timely fashion or are unable to appropriately increase production to fulfill customer demand, we will be unable to successfully introduce new products and services into the market or compete with other providers. Even if we complete the development of our new products and services in a cost-effective and timely manner, they may not be competitive with products developed by others, they may not achieve acceptance in the market at anticipated levels or at all, they may not be profitable or, even if they are profitable, they may not achieve margins as high as our expectations or as high as the margins we have achieved historically.
As we introduce new or enhanced products, integrate new technology into new or existing products, or reduce the overall number of products offered, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, excessive levels of new and existing product inventories, revenue deterioration in our existing product lines, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks by reducing the effectiveness of our product launches, reducing sales volumes of current products due to anticipated future products, making it more difficult to compete, shortening the period of differentiation based on our product innovation, straining relationships with our partners or increasing market expectations for the results of our new products before we have had an opportunity to demonstrate the market viability of the products. Our failure to manage the transition to new products or the integration of new technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition.
We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform. Consumer demand for PCs, especially in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia, has been declining and we expect it to continue to decline in the future. As a result, consumer demand for PC peripherals in many of our markets is slowing and in some cases declining and we expect this trend may continue.
Our sales of PC peripherals might be less than we expect due to a decline in business or economic conditions in one or more of the countries or regions, a greater decline than we expect in demand for our products, our inability to successfully execute our sales and marketing plans, or for other reasons. Global economic concerns, such as the varying pace of global economic recovery, political uncertainties created by policy changes such as Brexit, the impact of sovereign debt issues in Europe, the impact of low oil prices on Russia and conflicts with either local or 
 Music. We are focused on products for the consumption of digital music as a sales growth area. Competition in the mobile speaker and headphone categories is intense, and we expect it to increase. If we are not able to grow our existing and acquired product lines, introduce differentiated product and marketing strategies to separate ourselves from competitors, our mobile speaker and audio headphone efforts will not be successful, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.


