item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented. Operating results for the three months ended June 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020, or any future periods.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, valuation of operating right-of-use assets, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing, and pricing programs (Customer Programs) and related breakage when appropriate, accrued sales return liability, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets. 
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" (ASU 2016-02 or Topic 842), which requires a lessee to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities arising from operating and financing leases with terms longer than 12 months on the consolidated balance sheets and to disclose key information about leasing arrangements.
The income tax benefit in the respective period primarily consists of tax benefit related to the share-based compensation expense for the period and direct tax benefit realized, including net excess tax benefits recognized from share-based awards vested or exercised during the period. 
The income tax provision for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $6.5 million based on an effective income tax rate of 12.6% of pre-tax income, compared to an income tax benefit of $5.2 million based on an effective income tax rate of (15.7)% of pre-tax income for the three months ended June 30, 2018. 
On May 19, 2019, the Swiss electorate approved the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing ("TRAF"), a major reform to better align the Swiss tax system with international tax standards. The tax reform is expected to take effect on January 1, 2020. As of June 30, 2019, TRAF has not been enacted as the federal and cantonal legislative procedures are in process. 
The change in the effective income tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period ended June 30, 2018, was primarily due to the mix of income and losses in the various tax jurisdictions which the Company operates and the transitional income tax impact in Switzerland. The Company has benefited from a longstanding tax ruling from the canton of Vaud through March 31, 2019. The transitional income tax impact represents income tax provision at the current full statutory income tax rate of 13.62%, without taking account of the federal and cantonal tax reform yet to be enacted. In the three months ended June 30, 2019, there was a discrete tax provision of $2.3 million to record net deferred tax liability in Switzerland. Furthermore, there were discrete tax benefits of $5.8 million and $1.2 million from the recognition of excess tax benefits in the United States and reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations, respectively, in the three-month period ended June 30, 2019, compared with $8.3 million and $0.9 million, respectively, in the three-month period ended June 30, 2018. 
•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. This includes certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs.
The Company enters into cash flow hedge contracts to protect against exchange rate exposure of forecasted inventory purchases. These hedging contracts mature within four months. Gains and losses in the fair value of the effective portion of the hedges are deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, at which time the gains or losses are reclassified to cost of goods sold. Cash flows from such hedges are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Hedging relationships are discontinued when hedging contract is no longer eligible for hedge accounting, or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when Company removes hedge designation for the contract. Gains and losses in the fair value of the effective portion of the discontinued hedges continue to be reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, unless it is probable that the forecasted inventory purchases will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time thereafter. In all periods presented herein, there have been no forecasted inventory purchases that were probable to not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time thereafter. The notional amounts of foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases were $68.2 million as of June 30, 2019 and $41.4 million as of March 31, 2019. The Company had $0.8 million of net losses related to its cash flow hedges included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of June 30, 2019 which will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
The Company conducts its impairment analysis of goodwill annually at December 31 and as necessary, if changes in facts and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the Company’s reporting unit may be less than its carrying amount. There have been no events or circumstances during the three months ended June 30, 2019 that have required the Company to perform an interim assessment of goodwill. 
The Company had several uncommitted, unsecured bank lines of credit aggregating $79.3 million as of June 30, 2019. There are no financial covenants under these lines of credit with which the Company must comply. As of June 30, 2019, the Company had outstanding bank guarantees of $15.7 million under these lines of credit. There was no borrowing outstanding under these lines of credit as of June 30, 2019 or March 31, 2019.
The Company also indemnifies its current and former directors and certain of its current and former officers. Certain costs incurred for providing such indemnification may be recoverable under various insurance policies. The Company is unable to reasonably estimate the maximum amount that could be payable under these arrangements because these exposures are not limited, the obligations are conditional in nature and the facts and circumstances involved in any situation that might arise are variable.
From time to time the Company is involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of its business. The Company is currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. The Company believes that these matters lack merit and intends to vigorously defend against them. Based on currently available information, the Company does not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that the Company’s defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations in a particular period. Any claims or proceedings against the Company, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors. Any failure to obtain a necessary license or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims, could adversely affect the Company’s business.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019, the total operating lease costs were $3.3 million, which included short-term lease costs and sublease income. Total variable lease costs were immaterial during the three months ended June 30, 2019. The total operating and variable lease costs were included in cost of goods sold, marketing 


item2.txt
Our total sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased 6%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018, supported by stronger sales in the Americas and EMEA. Blue Microphones contributed 2 points to the sales growth during the period. 
Our sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased 6% and 12% in the Americas and EMEA, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Our sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 in Asia Pacific were flat compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. 
Operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2019 remained flat compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Operating expenses were 29.7% of sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 31.5% of sales in the same period of the prior fiscal year. 
We believe our future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, including gaming, digital music devices, video and computing. The following discussion represents key trends specific to our market opportunities.
 The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, valuation of operating right-of-use assets, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing, and pricing programs and related breakage when appropriate, accrued sales return liability, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets. 


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
From time-to-time we are involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them. Based on currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse 
•We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers. This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results.
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories. We may not achieve the cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these efforts, and the success or failure of such efforts may cause our operating results to fluctuate and to be difficult to predict.
The development of new products and services can be very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process also can be lengthy and costly. There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments. If we fail to accurately anticipate technological trends or our users’ needs or preferences, are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost-effective and timely fashion or are unable to appropriately increase production to fulfill customer demand, we will be unable to successfully introduce new products and services into the market or compete with other providers. Even if we complete the development of our new products and services in a cost-effective and timely manner, they may not be competitive with products developed by others, they may not achieve acceptance in the market at anticipated levels or at all, they may not be profitable or, even if they are profitable, they may not achieve margins as high as our expectations or as high as the margins we have achieved historically.
As we introduce new or enhanced products, integrate new technology into new or existing products, or reduce the overall number of products offered, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, excessive levels of new and existing product inventories, revenue deterioration in our existing product lines, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks by reducing the effectiveness of our product launches, reducing sales volumes of current products due to anticipated future products, making it more difficult to compete, shortening the period of differentiation based on our product innovation, straining relationships with our partners or increasing market expectations for the results of our new products before we have had an opportunity to demonstrate the market viability of the products. Our failure to manage the transition to new products or the integration of new technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition.
We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform. Consumer demand for PCs, especially in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia, has been declining or flat for several years, and such trends may continue in the future. This has put pressure on consumer demand for PC peripherals in many of our markets and may cause sales growth of our PC peripherals to slow and, in some cases, decline. We expect this trend may continue. 
Video Collaboration. While we view the small and medium sized user groups opportunity to be large and relatively unaddressed, this is a new and evolving market segment that we and our competitors are developing. If the market opportunity proves to be sustainable, we expect increased competition from established competitors in the video conferencing market as well as from new entrants who are gaining traction as the industry comes to accept new technology and new solutions. In order to continue to grow in this opportunity, we may need to further build and scale our own enterprise sales force, a capability that several of our competitors in this category already have.
Music. We are focused on products for the consumption of digital music as a sales growth area. Competition in the mobile speaker and headphone categories is intense, and we expect it to increase. Moreover, the market for mobile speakers appears to be maturing with slower growth or even declining. If we are not able to grow our existing and acquired product lines and introduce differentiated products and marketing strategies to separate our products and brands from competitors' products and brands, our mobile speaker and audio headphone efforts will not be successful, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.
Each of these growth categories and many of the growth opportunities that we may pursue are subject to constant and rapidly changing and evolving technologies and evolving industry standards and may be replaced by new technology concepts or platforms. Some of these growth categories and opportunities are also characterized by short product cycles, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and rapidly changing and evolving consumer preferences with respect to design and features that require calculated risk-taking and fast responsiveness and result in short opportunities to establish a market presence. In addition, some of these growth categories and opportunities are characterized by price competition, erosion of premium-priced segments and average selling prices, commoditization, and sensitivity to general economic conditions and cyclical downturns. The growth opportunities and strength and number of competitors that we face in all of our product categories mean that 
we are at risk of new competitors coming to market with more innovative products that are more attractive to customers than ours or priced more competitively. If we do not develop innovative and reliable peripherals and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner that are attractive to consumers in these markets, if we are otherwise unsuccessful entering and competing in these growth categories or responding to our many competitors and to the rapidly changing conditions in these growth categories, if the growth categories in which we invest our limited resources do not emerge as the opportunities or do not produce the growth or profitability we expect, or when we expect it, or if we do not correctly anticipate changes and evolutions in technology and platforms, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.


