item1.txt
Logitech International S.A, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, ("Logitech" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences. More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud. 
The condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Logitech and its subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements. They should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 21, 2018. 
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented. Operating results for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, or any future periods.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below under Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, there have been no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the six months ended September 30, 2018 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
•Under Topic 605, accruals for certain Customer Programs were recognized as a reduction of revenue at the later of when the related revenue is recognized or when the program is offered to the customer. Under Topic 606, these programs qualify as variable consideration and are recorded as a reduction of the 
•Under Topic 605, revenue reserves for certain Customer Programs totaling $76.7 million, which were estimated using portfolio approach based on aggregated customer level, were included within accounts receivable, net as of March 31, 2018. Subsequent to the adoption of Topic 606, such balances are presented as accrued customer marketing, pricing and incentive programs included in accrued and other current liabilities.
Certain balances of allowances for sales return and accruals for Customer Programs which were accrued based on Customer Program offers made to individual customers, met the right of offset criteria in accordance with ASC 210-20, "Balance Sheet (Topic 210)", and are still included within accounts receivable, net. 
Substantially all revenue recognized by the Company relates to the contracts with customers to sell products that allow people to connect through music, gaming, video, computing, and other digital platforms. These products are hardware devices, which may include embedded software, and these functions together are considered as one performance obligation. Hardware devices are generally plug and play, requiring no configuration and little or no installation. Revenue is recognized at a point in time when control of the products is transferred to the customer which generally occurs upon shipment. The Company’s contracts with its customers generally have a term of no more than one year. The Company applies the practical expedient of not disclosing the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected length of one year or less. 
The Company normally requires payments from customers within thirty to sixty days from invoice date. However, terms may vary by customer type, by country and by selling season. Extended payment terms are sometimes offered to a limited number of customers during the second and third fiscal quarters. The Company does not modify payment terms on existing receivables. The Company's contracts with customers typically do not include significant financing components as the period between the satisfaction of performance obligations and timing of payment are generally within one year.
The transaction price received by the Company from sales to its distributors, retail companies ("retailers"), and authorized resellers is calculated as selling price net of variable consideration which may include product returns, price protection, and the Company’s payments for Customer Programs related to current period product revenue. The estimated impact of these programs is recorded as a reduction of sales or as an operating expense if the Company receives a distinct good or service from the customer and can reasonably estimate the fair value of that good or service received. Significant management judgment and estimates are used to determine the impact of these programs in any accounting period. Certain Customer Programs require management to estimate the percentage of those programs which will not be claimed or will not be earned by customers based on historical experience and on the specific terms and conditions of particular programs. The percentage of these customer programs that will not be claimed or earned is commonly referred to as "breakage". The Company accounts for breakage as part of variable consideration, subject to constraint, and records the estimated impact in the same 
The Company enters into cooperative marketing arrangements with many of its customers and with certain indirect partners, allowing customers to receive a credit equal to a set percentage of their purchases of the Company's products, or a fixed dollar credit for various marketing and incentive programs. The objective of these arrangements is to encourage advertising and promotional events to increase sales of the Company's products.
Customer incentive programs include consumer rebates and performance-based incentives. Consumer rebates are offered to the Company's customers and indirect partners at the Company's discretion for the primary benefit of end-users. In addition, the Company offers performance-based incentives to many of its customers and indirect partners based on predetermined performance criteria. At management's discretion, the Company also offers special pricing discounts to certain customers. Special pricing discounts are usually offered only for limited time periods or for sales of selected products to specific indirect partners. 
Typically, variable consideration does not need to be constrained as estimates are based on predictive historical data or future commitments that are planned and controlled by the Company. However, the Company continues to assess variable consideration estimates such that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur.
The Company regularly evaluates the adequacy of its estimates for Customer Programs and product returns. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company to take action to change such programs and related estimates. When the variables used to estimate these costs change, or if actual costs differ significantly from the estimates, the Company would be required to record incremental increases or reductions to sales or operating expenses.
Allowances for doubtful accounts are maintained for estimated losses resulting from the Company's customers' inability to make required payments. The allowances are based on the Company's regular assessment of the financial condition of specific customers, as well as its historical experience with bad debts and customer deductions, receivables aging, current economic trends, geographic or country specific risks and the financial condition of its distribution channels.


item2.txt
 On August 21, 2018 (the "Acquisition Date"), we acquired all equity interests in Blue Microphones Holding Corporation ("Blue Microphones") for a total consideration of $134.9 million in cash (the "Blue Microphones Acquisition"), which includes a working capital adjustment and repayment of a debt on behalf of Blue Microphones. Blue Microphones is a leading audio manufacturer that designs and produces microphones, headphones, recording tools, and accessories for audio professionals, musicians and consumers. The Blue Microphones Acquisition is consistent with Logitech's merger and acquisition strategy and will supplement the Company's portfolio opportunities. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, Blue Microphones contributed one percentage point of the net sales growth rate.
Our net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased 8% and 24% in the Americas and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Our net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 in EMEA remained flat, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Our net sales for the six months ended September 30, 2018 increased 10%, 3% and 26% in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Operating expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $191.0 million, or 27.6% of net sales, compared to $168.8 million, or 26.7% of net sales, in the same period of the prior fiscal year. Operating expenses for the six months ended September 30, 2018 were $382.5 million, or 29.4% of net sales, compared to $331.0 million, or 28.5% of net sales, in the same period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily driven by $8.8 million higher advertising and 
We believe our future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, including gaming, digital music devices, video and computing. The following discussion represents key trends specific to our market opportunities.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncement adoptions discussed below and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies discussed in Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements, there have been no substantial changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the six months ended September 30, 2018, compared with the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
From time-to-time we are involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them. Based on currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period. Any claims or 
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories. We may not achieve the cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these efforts, and the success or failure of such efforts may cause our operating results to fluctuate and to be difficult to predict.
•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. Dollars, whereas a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are in other currencies. We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements. However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited.
The development of new products and services can be very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process also can be lengthy and costly. There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments. If we fail to accurately anticipate technological trends or our users’ needs or preferences, are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost-effective and timely fashion or are unable to appropriately increase production to fulfill customer demand, we will be unable to successfully introduce new products and services into the market or compete with other providers. Even if we complete the development of our new products and services in a cost-effective and timely manner, they may not be competitive with products developed by others, they may not achieve acceptance in the market at anticipated levels or at all, they may not be profitable or, even if they are profitable, they may not achieve margins as high as our expectations or as high as the margins we have achieved historically.
As we introduce new or enhanced products, integrate new technology into new or existing products, or reduce the overall number of products offered, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, excessive levels of new and existing product inventories, revenue deterioration in our existing product lines, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks by reducing the effectiveness of our product launches, reducing sales volumes of current products due to anticipated future products, making it more difficult to compete, shortening the period of differentiation based on our product innovation, straining relationships with our partners or increasing market expectations for the results of our new products before we have had an opportunity to demonstrate the market viability of the products. Our failure to manage the transition to new products or the integration of new technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition.
We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform. Consumer demand for PCs, especially in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia, has been declining and we expect it to continue to decline in the future. As a result, consumer demand for PC peripherals in many of our markets is slowing and, in some cases, declining and we expect this trend may continue. 
As a result, we are focusing more of our attention, which may include the personnel, financial resources and management attention, on product innovations and growth opportunities, including products for the consumption of digital music, products for gaming, products for video collaboration, products for the digital home, and on other potential growth opportunities. Our investments may not result in the growth we expect, or when we expect it, for a variety of reasons including those described below.
Video Collaboration. While we view the small and medium sized user groups opportunity to be large and relatively unaddressed, this is a new and evolving market segment that we and our competitors are developing. If the market opportunity proves to be sustainable, we expect increased competition from established competitors in the video conferencing market as well as from new entrants who are gaining traction as the industry comes to accept new technology and new solutions.
Music. We are focused on products for the consumption of digital music as a sales growth area. Competition in the mobile speaker and headphone categories is intense, and we expect it to increase. Moreover, the market for mobile speakers appears to be maturing with slower growth. If we are not able to grow our existing and acquired product lines and introduce differentiated products and marketing strategies to separate our products and brands from competitors' products and brands, our mobile speaker and audio headphone efforts will not be successful, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.


