item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented. Operating results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, or any future periods.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)" ("ASU 2014-09" or “Topic 606”) which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 605 (“Topic 605”), Revenue Recognition. ASU 2014-09 outlines a new, single, comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. Under the new guidance, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard requires reporting companies to disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. On April 1, 2018, the Company adopted the new standard and all related amendments using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of April 1, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning after March 31, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with historic accounting standards under Topic 605.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, the Company a) recorded a reduction to retained earnings as of April 1, 2018; and b) reclassified certain allowances for sales returns and certain other Customer Programs from accounts receivable, net to accrued and other current liabilities and other current assets. 
•Under Topic 605, accruals for certain Customer Programs were recognized as a reduction of revenue at the later of when the related revenue is recognized or when the program is offered to the customer. Under Topic 606, these programs qualify as variable consideration and are recorded as a reduction of the 
•Under Topic 606, variable consideration must be estimated at the outset of the arrangement, subject to the constraint guidance to ensure that a significant revenue reversal will not occur. As a result, upon adoption of Topic 606, estimated breakage for accruals of certain Customer Programs is recognized sooner as compared to Topic 605.
•Under Topic 605, revenue reserves for certain Customer Programs totaling $76.7 million, which were estimated using portfolio approach based on aggregated customer level, were included within accounts receivable, net as of March 31, 2018. Subsequent to the adoption of Topic 606, such balances are presented as accrued customer marketing, pricing and incentive programs included in accrued and other current liabilities.
Certain balances of allowances for sales return and accruals for Customer Programs which were accrued based on offers made to individual customers, met the right of offset criteria in accordance with ASC 210-20, "Balance Sheet (Topic 210)", and are still included within accounts receivable, net. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" ("ASU 2016-02" or "Topic 842"), which generally requires companies to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities arising from operating and financing leases with terms longer than 12 months in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company will adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 on a modified retrospective basis, thereby recognizing the cumulative effect of initially applying Topic 842 as an adjustment to opening retained earnings on the adoption date, without revising the balances in comparative periods. The Company plans on electing the package of transitional practical expedients upon adoption which, among other provisions, allows the Company to carry forward historical lease classification, for any expired or existing leases on the adoption date. Although the Company expects to record significant amounts of right-of-use assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheets, the Company is still evaluating the full impact that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements. 
Typically, variable consideration does not need to be constrained as estimates are based on predictive historical data or future commitments that are planned and controlled by the Company. However, the Company continues to assess variable consideration estimates such that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur.
The Company recognizes the incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets that otherwise would have been recognized is one year or less. These costs are included in marketing and selling expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the Company did not have any material deferred contract costs.
Blue Microphones is a leading audio manufacturer that designs and produces microphones, headphones, recording tools, and accessories for audio professionals, musicians and consumers. The Blue Microphones Acquisition is consistent with Logitech's merger and acquisition strategy and will supplement the Company's portfolio in the microphones market. 
The fair values of developed technology and trade name were estimated using the relief-from-royalty method, an income approach (Level 3), which estimates the cost savings that accrue to the owner of the intangible assets that would otherwise be payable as royalties or license fees on revenues earned through the use of the asset. A royalty rate is applied to the projected revenues associated with the intangible assets to determine the amount of savings, which is then discounted to determine the fair value. The developed technology and trade name were valued using royalty rates of 10% and 3%, respectively, and both were discounted at a rate of 11%.
The fair value of customer relationships was estimated using the excess earnings method, an income approach (Level 3), which converts projected revenues and costs into cash flows. To reflect the fact that certain other assets contributed to the cash flows generated, the returns for these contributory assets were removed to arrive at estimated cash flows solely attributable to the customer relationships, which were discounted at a rate of 11%.
The Company incurred acquisition-related costs for the Blue Microphones Acquisition of approximately $1.5 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2018. The acquisition-related costs are included in "amortization of intangible assets and acquisition-related costs" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
The Company included Blue Microphones' estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in its condensed consolidated balance sheet beginning on the Acquisition Date. The results of operations for Blue Microphones subsequent to the Acquisition Date have been included in, but are not material to, the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018. Pro forma results of operations for the Blue Microphones Acquisition have not been presented because they are not material to the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018. Blue Microphones, the acquisition of which was closed on August 21, 2018, contributed $24.8 million and $32.5 million to net sales, representing approximately 3% and 2% of the net sales of the Company for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively. 


item2.txt
Our net sales for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased 1%, 6%, and 18% in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Our net sales for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 increased 7%, 4% and 23% in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our gross margin for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased 360 basis points to 37.5% from 33.9% for the three months ended December 31, 2017. Our gross margin benefited from favorable mix and cost reduction efforts, supply chain efficiencies and Topic 606 adoption, partially offset by U.S. tariffs implemented in July 2018 for certain of our products imported into the United States. In addition, an increase in logistics costs, including additional costs from the transition of the distribution center in North America in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018, negatively affected the gross margin of that prior year period by approximately 150 basis points.
Our gross margin for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 increased 190 basis points to 37.2% from 35.3% for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to supply chain efficiencies, cost reduction efforts, favorable exchange rates, tariff duty refund, and Topic 606 adoption, partially offset by an increase in tariffs. In addition, additional costs from the transition of the distribution center in North America in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 negatively affected the gross margin of the prior year period.
Operating expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2018 were $200.6 million, or 23.2% of net sales, compared to $175.3 million, or 21.6% of net sales, in the same period of the prior fiscal year. Operating expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 were $583.1 million, or 26.9% of net sales, compared to $506.4 million, or 25.6% of net sales, in the same period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2018, was primarily driven by $13.0 million higher personnel-related cost primarily due to additional headcount from business acquisition and increased performance-based variable 
We believe our future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, including gaming, digital music devices, video and computing. The following discussion represents key trends specific to our market opportunities.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
From time-to-time we are involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them. Based on currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period. Any claims or 
•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. Dollars, whereas a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are in other currencies. We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements. However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited.
If we do not execute on these factors successfully, products that we introduce or technologies or standards that we adopt may not gain widespread commercial acceptance, and our business and operating results could suffer. In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected.
The development of new products and services can be very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process also can be lengthy and costly. There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments. If we fail to accurately anticipate technological trends or our users’ needs or preferences, are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost-effective and timely fashion or are unable to appropriately increase production to fulfill customer demand, we will be unable to successfully introduce new products and services into the market or compete with other providers. Even if we complete the development of our new products and services in a cost-effective and timely manner, they may not be competitive with products developed by others, they may not achieve acceptance in the market at anticipated levels or at all, they may not be profitable or, even if they are profitable, they may not achieve margins as high as our expectations or as high as the margins we have achieved historically.
As we introduce new or enhanced products, integrate new technology into new or existing products, or reduce the overall number of products offered, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, excessive levels of new and existing product inventories, revenue deterioration in our existing product lines, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks by reducing the effectiveness of our product launches, reducing sales volumes of current products due to anticipated future products, making it more difficult to compete, shortening the period of differentiation based on our product innovation, straining relationships with our partners or increasing market expectations for the results of our new products before we have had an opportunity to demonstrate the market viability of the products. Our failure to manage the transition to new products or the integration of new technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition.
Video Collaboration. While we view the small and medium sized user groups opportunity to be large and relatively unaddressed, this is a new and evolving market segment that we and our competitors are developing. If the market opportunity proves to be sustainable, we expect increased competition from established competitors in the video conferencing market as well as from new entrants who are gaining traction as the industry comes to accept new technology and new solutions.
Smart Home. While we are a leader in programmable, performance remote controls for home entertainment, the smart home market is still in its early stages and it is not yet clear when the category will produce dynamic growth or which products will succeed and be able to take advantage of market growth or to help define and grow the market. Despite its early stages, the smart home market already is experiencing increasing competition from strong competitors.
Each of these growth categories and many of the growth opportunities that we may pursue are subject to constant and rapidly changing and evolving technologies and evolving industry standards and may be replaced by new technology concepts or platforms. Some of these growth categories and opportunities are also characterized by short product cycles, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and rapidly changing and evolving consumer preferences with respect to design and features that require calculated risk-taking and fast responsiveness and result in short opportunities to establish a market presence. In addition, some of these growth categories and opportunities are characterized by price competition, erosion of premium-priced segments and average selling prices, commoditization, and sensitivity to general economic conditions and cyclical downturns. The growth opportunities and strength and number of competitors that we face in all of our product categories means that we are at risk of new competitors coming to market with more innovative products that are more attractive to customers than ours or priced more competitively. If we do not develop innovative and reliable peripherals and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner that are attractive to consumers in these markets, if we are otherwise unsuccessful entering and competing in these growth categories or responding to our many competitors and to the rapidly changing conditions in these growth categories, if the growth categories in which we invest our limited resources do not emerge as the opportunities or do not produce the growth or profitability we expect, or when we expect it, or if we do not correctly anticipate changes and evolutions in technology and platforms, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.
We have developed long-term value in our brands and have invested significantly in design and in our existing and new brands over the past several years. We believe that our design and brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business and that maintaining and enhancing our brands is very important to our future growth and success. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will require significant investments and will depend largely on our future design, products and marketing, which may not be successful and may damage our brands. Our brands and reputation are also dependent on third parties, such as suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers, product reviewers and the media as well as online consumer product reviews, consumer recommendations and referrals. It can take significant time, resources and expense to overcome negative publicity, reviews or perception. Any negative effect on our brands, regardless of whether it is in our control, could adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations.


