item1.txt
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below under Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, there have been no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
•Under Topic 605, revenue reserves for certain Customer Programs totaling $76.7 million, which were estimated using portfolio approach based on aggregated customer level, were included within accounts receivable, net as of March 31, 2018. Subsequent to the adoption of Topic 606, such balances are presented as accrued customer marketing, pricing and incentive programs included in accrued and other current liabilities.
Certain balances of allowances for sales return and accruals for Customer Programs which were accrued based on Customer Program offers made to individual customer, met the right of offset criteria in accordance with ASC 210-20, "Balance Sheet (Topic 210)", and are still included within accounts receivable, net. 
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, "Financial Instruments-Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Subtopic 825-10)" ("ASU 2016-01"). ASU 2016-01 requires entities to measure equity instruments at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value within the statement of operations. The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 effective April 1, 2018 on a prospective basis for its privately held strategic equity securities without readily determinable fair values. The Company elected the measurement alternative to record these investments at cost and to adjust for impairments and observable price changes with a same or similar security from the same issuer within the statement of operations. The adoption of ASU 2016-01 did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" ("ASU 2016-02" or "Topic 842"), which generally requires companies to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities arising from operating and financing leases with terms longer than 12 months in the consolidated balance sheets. This guidance will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 on a modified retrospective basis and early adoption is permitted. The Company will adopt the new standard effective April 1, 2019. Although the Company expects to record significant amounts of right-of-use assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheets, the Company is still evaluating the full impact of adopting this guidance to determine the amounts and additional disclosures. 
The Company also provides post-contract customer support (“PCS”) for sold products and related software, which includes unspecified software updates and upgrades, bug fixes and maintenance. Revenue allocated to such PCS is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated term of the support, which is between 1 to 2 years, and not material for the periods presented herein. Deferred revenue associated with remaining PCS performance obligation is not material as of June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018. 
The Company normally requires payments from customers within 30-60 days from invoice date. However, terms may vary by customer type, by country and by selling season. Extended payment terms are sometimes offered to a limited number of customers during the second and third fiscal quarters. The Company does not modify 
Typically variable consideration does not need to be constrained as estimates are based on predictive historical data or future commitments that are planned and controlled by the Company. However, the Company continues to assess variable consideration estimates such that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur.
Sales taxes and value added taxes (“VAT”) collected from customers which are remitted to governmental authorities are not included in revenue, and are reflected as a liability on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. The Company has elected to exclude sales taxes from the revenue recognized from contracts with customers.
The Company records contract liabilities when cash payments are received or due in advance of performance, primarily for implied support and subscriptions. Contract liabilities are included in accrual and other current liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. 
Share equivalents attributable to outstanding stock options, restricted stock units ("RSUs") and ESPP totaling 1.5 million and 1.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted net income per share because the combined exercise price and average unamortized grant date fair value upon exercise of these options and ESPP or vesting of RSUs were greater than the average market price of the Company's shares during the periods presented herein, and therefore their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.
Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans or non-retirement post-employment benefits covering substantially all of their employees. Benefits are provided based on employees’ years of service and earnings, or in accordance with applicable employee benefit regulations. The Company’s practice is to fund amounts sufficient to meet the requirements set forth in the applicable employee benefit and tax regulations. The cost recorded of $2.3 million and $2.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, was primarily related to service costs.
The Company enters into cash flow hedge contracts to protect against exchange rate exposure of forecasted inventory purchases. These hedging contracts mature within four months. Gains and losses in the fair value of the effective portion of the hedges are deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, at which time the gains or losses are reclassified to cost of goods sold. Cash flows from such hedges are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Hedging relationships are discontinued when hedging contract is no longer eligible for hedge accounting, or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when Company removes hedge designation for the contract. Gains and losses in the fair value of the effective portion of the discontinued hedges continue to be reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, unless it is probable that the forecasted inventory purchases will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time thereafter. In all periods presented herein, there have been no forecasted inventory purchases that were probable to not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time thereafter. The notional amounts of foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases were $72.4 million as of June 30, 2018. As of March 31, 2018, there were no currency forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases. The Company had $0.2 million of net losses related to its cash flow hedges included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of June 30, 2018 which will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
The Company also enters into foreign currency exchange forward and swap contracts to reduce the short-term effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of its subsidiaries. These contracts generally mature within one month. The primary risk managed by using forward and swap contracts is the currency exchange rate risk. The gains or losses 
on these contracts are recognized in other expense, net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations based on the changes in fair value. The notional amounts of these contracts outstanding as of June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018 were $60.5 million and $47.2 million, respectively. Open forward and swap contracts outstanding as of June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018 consisted of contracts in Mexican Pesos, Japanese Yen, Canadian dollars, Taiwanese dollars, and Australian dollars to be settled at future dates at pre-determined exchange rates. 


item2.txt
Our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 15% compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, due to stronger net sales across all regions.  ASTRO contributed 5 points to the net sales growth during the period. Our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 13%, 7% and 28% in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. 
Our gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 30 basis points to 36.8% from 36.5% for the three months ended June 30, 2017 as a result of a one-time benefit of approximately 60 basis points from a legal settlement with our prior distribution center supplier in the Americas as well as favorable exchange rates and product cost savings. Those benefits were partially offset by supply chain and logistics costs. 
We believe our future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, including gaming, digital music devices, video and computing. The following discussion represents key trends specific to our market opportunities.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" ("ASU 2014-09" or “Topic 606”) which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements under ASC 605 (“Topic 605”), Revenue Recognition. ASU 2014-09 outlines a new, single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. Under the new guidance, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard requires reporting companies to disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. On April 1, 2018, we adopted the new standard and all related amendments using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of March 31, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning after April 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with historic accounting standards under Topic 605. 
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, "Financial Instruments-Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Subtopic 825-10)" ("ASU 2016-01"). ASU 2016-01 requires entities to measure equity instruments at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value within the statement of operations. We adopted ASU 2016-01 effective April 1, 2018 on a prospective basis for our privately held strategic equity securities without readily determinable fair values. We elected the measurement alternative to record these investments at cost and to adjust for impairments and observable price changes with a same or similar security from the same issuer within the statement of operations. The adoption of ASU 2016-01 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
From time-to-time we are involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them. Based on currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period. Any claims or 
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories. We may not achieve the cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these efforts, and the success or failure of such efforts may cause our operating results to fluctuate and to be difficult to predict.
•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. Dollars, whereas a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are in other currencies. We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements. However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited.
The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process is also lengthy and costly. There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments. If we fail to accurately anticipate technological trends or our users’ needs or preferences, are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost-effective and timely fashion or are unable to appropriately increase production to fulfill customer demand, we will be unable to successfully introduce new products and services into the market or compete with other providers. Even if we complete the development of our new products and services in a cost-effective and timely manner, they may not be competitive with products developed by others, they may not achieve acceptance in the market at anticipated levels or at all, they may not be profitable or, even if they are profitable, they may not achieve margins as high as our expectations or as high as the margins we have achieved historically.
As we introduce new or enhanced products, integrate new technology into new or existing products, or reduce the overall number of products offered, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, excessive levels of new and existing product inventories, revenue deterioration in our existing product lines, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks by reducing the effectiveness of our product launches, reducing sales volumes of current products due to anticipated future products, making it more difficult to compete, shortening the period of differentiation based on our product innovation, straining relationships with our partners or increasing market expectations for the results of our new products before we have had an opportunity to demonstrate the market viability of the products. Our failure to manage the transition to new products or the integration of new technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition.
We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform. Consumer demand for PCs, especially in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia, has been declining and we expect it to continue to decline in the future. As a result, consumer demand for PC peripherals in many of our markets is slowing and, in some cases, declining and we expect this trend may continue. 
to successfully execute our sales and marketing plans, or for other reasons. Global economic concerns, such as the varying pace of global economic recovery, political uncertainties created by policy changes such as Brexit, tariffs and policies that inhibit trade, the impact of sovereign debt issues in Europe, the impact of oil prices on Russia and other countries, conflicts with either local or global financial implications and economic slowdown in China, create unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook.
As a result, we are focusing more of our attention, which may include the personnel, financial resources and management attention, on product innovations and growth opportunities, including products for the consumption of digital music, products for gaming, products for video collaboration, products for the digital home, and on other potential growth opportunities. Our investments may not result in the growth we expect, or when we expect it, for a variety of reasons including those described below.
Music. We are focused on products for the consumption of digital music as a sales growth area. Competition in the mobile speaker and headphone categories is intense, and we expect it to increase. Moreover, the market for mobile speakers appears to be maturing with slower growth. If we are not able to grow our existing and acquired product lines and introduce differentiated products and marketing strategies to separate our products and brands from competitors' products and brands, our mobile speaker and audio headphone efforts will not be successful, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.


