The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company," or similar references) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware. We are one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. Our lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations. We have one reportable segment serving the North American lighting market and select international markets.
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. No material reclassifications occurred during the current period. Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
No acquisitions were completed during the first six months of fiscal 2019. The following discussion relates to acquisitions completed during fiscal 2018. 
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, we acquired all of the equity interests of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”). IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and international markets. The operating results of IOTA have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, we acquired all of the equity interests of Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”). Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings. The operating results of Lucid have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred. Amounts related to the acquisition accounting for these acquisitions are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions reflects total goodwill and identified intangible assets of approximately $77.0 million and $81.8 million, respectively, as of February 28, 2019. Identified intangible assets consist of indefinite-lived marketing-related intangibles as well as definite-lived customer-based and technology-based assets, which have a weighted average useful life of approximately 14 years. We finalized the acquisition accounting for Lucid during the current quarter. There were no material changes to our financial statements as a result of the finalization of this acquisition accounting. However, the acquisition accounting for IOTA is deemed provisional as we continue to gather information related to the identification and valuation of certain deferred tax items.
In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets obtained in an acquisition is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. If so, the transaction does not qualify as a business. The guidance also requires an acquired business to include at least one substantive process and narrows the definition of outputs. We adopted ASU 2017-01 effective September 1, 2018 and applied the guidance prospectively. The provisions of ASU 2017-01 did not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. These cash flows include debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance. We adopted ASU 2016-15 effective September 1, 2018 and applied the changes retrospectively. We maintain life insurance policies on certain former employees primarily to satisfy obligations under certain deferred compensation plans. As required by the standard, proceeds from these policies are now classified as cash inflows from investing activities. We received $0.8 million and $0.7 million from corporate-owned 
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASU 2014-09”), which replaced the existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP. Since the issuance of ASU 2014-09, the FASB released several amendments to improve and clarify the implementation guidance, as well as to change the effective date. These standards have been collectively codified within Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”). ASC 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The standard also requires additional disclosures about the nature, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in those judgments. 
We adopted ASC 606 effective September 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and recognized a cumulative effect of applying ASC 606 of $13.0 million in Retained earnings on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of this date. We applied the standard to all contracts as of the transition date. Information for prior years presented has not been restated and continues to reflect the authoritative accounting standards in effect for those periods. 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract (“ASU 2018-15”), which will require customers to apply internal-use software guidance to determine the implementation costs that are able to be capitalized. Capitalized implementation costs will be required to be amortized over the term of the arrangement, beginning when the cloud computing arrangement is ready for its intended use. ASU 2018-15 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2019. The standard allows changes to be applied either retrospectively or prospectively. We will adopt the standard as required in fiscal 2021. The provisions of ASU 2018-15 are not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (“ASU 2016-13”), which requires an entity to assess impairment of its financial instruments based on its estimate of expected credit losses. The provisions of ASU 2016-13 are effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2019. Entities are required to apply these changes through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective. We will adopt the amendments as required in fiscal 2021. The provisions of ASU 2016-13 are not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
presented or as of the date of adoption. We have an implementation team tasked with reviewing our lease obligations and determining the impact of the new standard to our financial statements. The team is also tasked with identifying appropriate changes to our business processes, systems, and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard. Currently, the implementation team has completed its review of outstanding property leases, which account for a substantial portion of our outstanding lease obligations. The team is in the process of reviewing and analyzing equipment leases, information technology contracts, and other contracts that may have ASC 842 impacts. At this time, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of adopting the standard. The implementation team reports its findings and progress of the project to management on a frequent basis and to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. We will adopt the standard as required on September 1, 2019.
All other newly issued accounting pronouncements not yet effective have been deemed either immaterial or not applicable.
We recognize revenue when we transfer control of goods and services to our customers. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for goods and services and is recognized net of allowances for rebates, sales incentives, product returns, and discounts to customers. Sales and use taxes collected on behalf of governmental authorities are excluded from revenues. Payment is generally due and received within 60 days from the point of sale or prior to the transfer of control of certain goods and services. No payment terms extend beyond one year, and we apply the practical expedient within ASC 606 to conclude that no significant financing terms exist within our contracts with customers. Allowances for cash discounts to customers are estimated using the expected value method based on historical experience and are recorded as a reduction to sales. Our standard terms and conditions of sale allow for the return of certain products within four months of the date of shipment. We also provide for limited product return rights to certain distributors and other customers, primarily for slow moving or damaged items subject to certain defined criteria. The limited product return rights generally allow customers to return resalable products purchased within a specified time period and subject to certain limitations, including, at times, when accompanied by a replacement order of equal or greater value. At the time revenue is recognized, we record a refund liability for the expected value of future returns primarily based on historical experience, specific notification of pending returns, or based on contractual terms with the respective customers. Although historical product returns generally have been within expectations, there can be no assurance that future product returns will not exceed historical amounts. A significant increase in product returns could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in future periods.
Total refund liabilities recorded under ASC 606 related to rights of return, cash discounts, and other miscellaneous credits to customers were $36.9 million and $41.2 million as of February 28, 2019 and September 1, 2018, respectively, and are reflected within Other accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additionally, we record right of return assets for products expected to be returned to our distribution centers, which are included within Prepayments and other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such assets totaled $15.2 million and $16.4 million as of February 28, 2019 and September 1, 2018, respectively. 
Costs to obtain and fulfill contracts, such as sales commissions and shipping and handling activities, are short-term in nature and are expensed as incurred. 
Approximately 94% of revenue is generated from short-term contracts with our customers to deliver tangible goods such as luminaires, lighting controllers, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers. We record revenue from these contracts when the customer obtains control of those goods. For sales designated free on board shipping point, control is transferred at the time of shipment. For sales designated free on board destination, customers take control when a product is delivered to the customer’s delivery site. 
We collect fees associated with training, installation, and technical support services, primarily related to the set up of our lighting solutions. We recognize revenue for these one-time services at the time the service is performed. We also sell certain service-type warranties that extend coverages for products beyond their base warranties. We account for service-type warranties as distinct performance obligations and recognize revenue for these contracts ratably over the life of the additional warranty period. Claims related to service-type warranties are expensed as incurred.
Software sales include licenses for software, data usage fees, and software as a service arrangements, which generally extend for one year or less. We recognize revenue for software based on the contractual rights provided to a customer, which typically results in the recognition of revenue ratably over the contractual service period.
A small portion (approximately 6%) of our revenue is derived from the combination of any or all of products, professional services, and software licenses. Significant judgment may be required to determine which performance obligations are distinct and should be accounted for separately. We allocate the expected consideration to be collected to each distinct performance obligation based on its standalone selling price. Standalone selling price is generally determined using a cost plus margin valuation when no observable input is available. The amount of consideration allocated to each performance obligation is recognized as revenue in accordance with the timing for products, professional services, and software as described above.
Current deferred revenues primarily consist of software licenses, and to a lesser extent professional service and sales-type warranty fees collected prior to performing the related service. Current deferred revenues are included within Other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These services are expected to be performed within one year. Non-current deferred revenues primarily consist of long-term service-type warranties, which are typically recognized ratably as revenue between five and ten years from the date of sale, and are included within Other long-
term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Revenue recognized from beginning balances of contract liabilities during the six months ended February 28, 2019 totaled $3.1 million. 
We determine fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability. ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i) unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level 1), (ii) quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level 2), and (iii) prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level 3).
Our cash and cash equivalents (Level 1), which are required to be carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis, were $232.0 million and $129.1 million as of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively.
We used quoted market prices to determine the fair value of Level 1 assets and liabilities. No transfers between the levels of the fair value hierarchy occurred during the current fiscal period. In the event of a transfer in or out of a level within the fair value hierarchy, the transfers would be recognized on the date of occurrence.
Disclosures of fair value information about financial instruments (whether or not recognized in the balance sheet), for which it is practicable to estimate that value, are required each reporting period in addition to any financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis as prescribed by ASC 825, Financial Instruments (“ASC 825”). In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques. Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows.
The senior unsecured public notes are carried at the outstanding balance, net of unamortized bond discount and deferred costs, as of the end of the reporting period. Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The industrial revenue bond is carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period. The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, we estimate that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of February 28, 2019 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
Through multiple acquisitions, we acquired intangible assets consisting primarily of trademarks and trade names associated with specific products with finite lives, definite-lived distribution networks, patented technology, non-compete agreements, and customer relationships, which are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of trade names that are expected to generate cash flows indefinitely.
We recorded amortization expense of $7.7 million and $6.7 million during the three months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $15.4 million and $13.3 million during the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Amortization expense is generally recorded on a straight-line basis and is expected to be approximately $30.8 million in fiscal 2019, $30.8 million in fiscal 2020, $28.0 million in fiscal 2021, $27.0 million in fiscal 2022, and $25.9 million in fiscal 2023.
Further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Basic earnings per share for the periods presented is computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed similarly but reflects the potential dilution that would occur if dilutive options were exercised, all unvested share-based payment awards were vested, and other distributions related to deferred stock agreements were incurred.
Further discussion of our stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Comprehensive income represents a measure of all changes in equity that result from recognized transactions and other economic events other than transactions with owners in their capacity as owners. Other comprehensive income (loss) includes foreign currency translation and pension adjustments. The before tax amounts of the defined benef
it pension plan items reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive loss are included in Miscellaneous expense, net on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. See the Pension Plans footnote within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.
On June 29, 2018, we entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks that provides us with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (“Term Loan Facility”). We had no borrowings outstanding under the current Revolving Credit Facility or Term Loan Facility as of February 28, 2019. Additionally, we had no borrowings outstanding under our previous credit facility as of August 31, 2018. 
We are required to pay certain fees in connection with the Credit Agreement, including administrative service fees and annual facility fees. The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by our leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement. The facility fee ranges from 0.125% to 0.25% of the aggregate $800.0 million commitment of the lenders under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest expense coverage ratio (“Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”), as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement. These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period. The Credit Agreement generally allows for a Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50, subject to certain conditions, as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement. 
We were in compliance with all financial covenants under the Credit Agreement as of February 28, 2019. At February 28, 2019, we had additional borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement of $794.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility less the outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of February 28, 2019, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $9.5 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under our casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for our industrial revenue bond (not an outstanding amount under the Revolving Credit Facility). 
At February 28, 2019, we had $350.0 million of publicly-traded, senior unsecured notes outstanding at a 6% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in December 2019 (the “Unsecured Notes”). Although the Unsecured Notes will mature within one year from February 28, 2019, we have the ability and intent to refinance these borrowings using availability under our Term Loan Facility, subject to satisfying the applicable conditions precedent. Currently, we plan to refinance the Unsecured Notes in full with borrowings under the Term Loan Facility, of which $343.3 million of the current carrying value would be due more than one year from the refinancing date. As such, this amount is reflected within Long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of February 28, 2019. We also had $4.0 million of tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds that are scheduled to mature in 2021 and $3.0 million outstanding under fixed-rate bank loans outstanding at February 28, 2019. Further discussion of our long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K. 
Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings, partially offset by interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents.
We account for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of our equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into our director deferred compensation plan or our supplemental deferred savings plan.
Further details regarding each of these award programs and our share-based payments are included within the Share-based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Further details regarding our pension plans are included within the Pension and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
In December 2009, ABL, the 100% owned and principal operating subsidiary of Acuity Brands, refinanced the then current outstanding debt through the issuance of the Unsecured Notes. See Debt and Lines of Credit footnote for further information.
In accordance with the registration rights agreement by and between ABL and the guarantors to the Unsecured Notes and the initial purchasers of the Unsecured Notes, ABL and the guarantors to the Notes filed a registration statement with the SEC for an offer to exchange the Unsecured Notes for an issue of SEC-registered notes with identical terms. Due to the filing of the registration statement and offer to exchange, we determined the need for compliance with Rule 3-10 of SEC Regulation S-X (“Rule 3-10”). In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, we have included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule 3-10(d) of SEC Regulation S-X since the Unsecured Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding. The column marked “Parent” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands. The column marked “Subsidiary Issuer” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL. The column entitled “Subsidiary Guarantor” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL IP Holding. Lastly, the column listed as “Non-Guarantors” includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries. Consolidating adjustments were necessary in order to arrive at consolidated amounts. In addition, the equity method of accounting was used to calculate investments in subsidiaries. Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting.
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings in the Company’s Form 10-K. Information set forth in this report’s Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes any legal proceedings that became reportable during the quarter ended February 28, 2019, and updates any descriptions of previously reported legal proceedings in which there have been material developments during such quarter. The discussion of legal proceedings included within the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated into this Item 1 by reference.
