Item 1.Financial Statements
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other wholly-owned subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company,” or similar references) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
We are one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
Our lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
We prepared the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) to present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
However, we believe that the disclosures included herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
No material reclassifications occurred during the current period.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
No acquisitions were completed during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
The following discussion relates to acquisitions completed during fiscal 2018.
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, we acquired all of the equity interests of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and international markets.
Lucid Design Group, Inc.
On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, we acquired all of the equity interests of Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.
Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred.
The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions reflects total goodwill and identified intangible assets of approximately $76.8 million and $81.8 million, respectively, as of May 31, 2019.
Identified intangible assets consist of indefinite-lived marketing-related intangibles as well as definite-lived customer-based and technology-based assets, which have a weighted average useful life of approximately 14 years.
As of May 31, 2019, we have finalized the acquisition accounting for Lucid and IOTA.
The remaining provisions of ASU 2016-15 did not impact our financial statements for the periods presented.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASU 2014-09”), which replaced the existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP.
Since the issuance of ASU 2014-09, the FASB released several amendments to improve and clarify the implementation guidance, as well as to change the effective date.
ASC 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
We adopted ASC 606 effective September 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and recognized a cumulative effect of applying ASC 606 of $13.0 million in Retained earnings on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of this date.
We applied the standard to all contracts as of the transition date.
Information for prior years presented has not been restated and continues to reflect the authoritative accounting standards in effect for those periods.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-15, Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement that is a Service Contract (“ASU 2018-15”), which will require customers to apply internal-use software guidance to determine the implementation costs that are able to be capitalized.
Capitalized implementation costs will be required to be amortized over the term of the arrangement, beginning when the cloud computing arrangement is ready for its intended use.
The standard allows changes to be applied either retrospectively or prospectively.
We will adopt the standard as required in fiscal 2021.
2016-02, Leases (“ASU 2016-02”), which requires lessees to include most leases on the balance sheet.
ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2018.
Since the issuance of ASU 2016-02, the FASB released several amendments to improve and clarify the implementation guidance, as well as to change the allowable adoption methods.
The standard allows entities to present the effects of the accounting change as either a cumulative adjustment as of the beginning of the earliest period presented or as of the date of adoption.
We have an implementation team tasked with reviewing our lease obligations and determining the impact of the new standard to our financial statements.
The team is also tasked with identifying appropriate changes to our business processes, systems, and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard.
Currently, the implementation team has substantially completed its review of outstanding property and equipment leases, which represent our primary outstanding lease obligations.
The team is in the process of reviewing and analyzing other contracts that may have ASC 842 impacts, including information technology contracts.
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
All other newly issued accounting pronouncements not yet effective have been deemed either immaterial or not applicable.
We recognize revenue when we transfer control of goods and services to our customers.
Payment is generally due and received within 60 days from the point of sale or prior to the transfer of control of certain goods and services.
No payment terms extend beyond one year, and we apply the practical expedient within ASC 606 to conclude that no significant financing terms exist within our contracts with customers.
Allowances for cash discounts to customers are estimated using the expected value method based on historical experience and are recorded as a reduction to sales.
At the time revenue is recognized, we record a refund liability for the expected value of future returns primarily based on historical experience, specific notification of pending returns, or based on contractual terms with the respective customers.
Such assets totaled $15.3 million and $16.4 million as of May 31, 2019 and September 1, 2018, respectively.
Costs associated with these programs are generally estimated based on the most likely amount expected to be settled based on the context of the individual contract and are reflected within the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income in accordance with ASC 606, which in most instances requires such costs to be recorded as reductions of revenue.
The refund liabilities associated with these programs totaled $31.8 million and $43.9 million as of May 31, 2019 and September 1, 2018, respectively, and are reflected within Other accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Approximately 95% of revenues for the periods presented were generated from short-term contracts with our customers to deliver tangible goods such as luminaires, lighting controllers, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers.
We record revenue from these contracts when the customer obtains control of those goods.
For sales designated free on board shipping point, control is transferred at the time of shipment.
For sales designated free on board destination, customers take control when a product is delivered to the customer’s delivery site.
We collect fees associated with training, installation, and technical support services, primarily related to the set up of our lighting solutions.
We recognize revenue for these one-time services at the time the service is performed.
We also sell certain service-type warranties that extend coverages for products beyond their base warranties.
Claims related to service-type warranties are expensed as incurred.
Software sales include licenses for software, data usage fees, and software as a service arrangements, which generally extend for one year or less.
We recognize revenue for software based on the contractual rights provided to a customer, which typically results in the recognition of revenue ratably over the contractual service period.
We account for all shipping and handling activities as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer products to our customers.
Significant judgment may be required to determine which performance obligations are distinct and should be accounted for separately.
We allocate the expected consideration to be collected to each distinct performance obligation based on its standalone selling price.
Standalone selling price is generally determined using a cost plus margin valuation when no observable input is available.
The amount of consideration allocated to each performance obligation is recognized as revenue in accordance with the timing for products, professional services, and software as described above.
Our rights related to collections from customers are unconditional and are reflected within Accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Contract liabilities arise when we receive cash or an unconditional right to collect cash prior to the transfer of control of goods or services.
Current deferred revenues primarily consist of customer prepayments, software licenses, and to a lesser extent professional service and sales-type warranty fees collected prior to performing the related service.
Current deferred revenues are included within Other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
These services are expected to be performed within one year.
within Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Revenue recognized from beginning balances of contract liabilities during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 totaled $3.7 million.
Accordingly, a comparison of backlog orders from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of future shipments.
We determine fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability.
ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i) unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level 1), (ii) quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level 2), and (iii) prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level 3).
We utilize valuation methodologies to determine the fair values of our financial assets and liabilities in conformity with the concepts of “exit price” and the fair value hierarchy as prescribed in ASC 820.
All valuation methods and assumptions are validated at least quarterly to ensure the accuracy and relevance of the fair values.
There were no material changes to the valuation methods or assumptions used to determine fair values during the current period.
We used quoted market prices to determine the fair value of Level 1 assets and liabilities.
No transfers between the levels of the fair value hierarchy occurred during the current fiscal period.
In the event of a transfer in or out of a level within the fair value hierarchy, the transfers would be recognized on the date of occurrence.
Disclosures of fair value information about financial instruments (whether or not recognized in the balance sheet), for which it is practicable to estimate that value, are required each reporting period in addition to any financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis as prescribed by ASC 825, Financial Instruments (“ASC 825”).
In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques.
Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows.
The senior unsecured public notes are carried at the outstanding balance, net of unamortized bond discount and deferred costs, as of the end of the reporting period.
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The industrial revenue bond is carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period.
The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, we estimate that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of May 31, 2019 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The bank loans are carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period.
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
ASC 825 excludes certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments from its disclosure requirements.
Accordingly, the aggregate fair value amounts presented do not represent the underlying value to us.
We recorded amortization expense of $7.7 million and $7.2 million during the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $23.1 million and $20.5 million during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Amortization expense is generally recorded on a straight-line basis and is expected to be approximately $30.7 million in fiscal 2019, $30.7 million in fiscal 2020, $27.9 million in fiscal 2021, $27.0 million in fiscal 2022, and $25.8 million in fiscal 2023.
Further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Basic earnings per share for the periods presented is computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding.
Diluted earnings per share is computed similarly but reflects the potential dilution that would occur if dilutive options were exercised, all unvested share-based payment awards were vested, and other distributions related to deferred stock agreements were incurred.
Other comprehensive income (loss) includes foreign currency translation and pension adjustments.
The before tax amounts of the defined benefit pension plan items reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive loss are included in Miscellaneous expense, net on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
See the Pension Plans footnote within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.
On June 29, 2018, we entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks that provides us with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (“Term Loan Facility”).
We had no borrowings outstanding under the current Revolving Credit Facility or Term Loan Facility as of May 31, 2019.
Additionally, we had no borrowings outstanding under our previous credit facility as of August 31, 2018.
Generally, amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility allow for borrowings to bear interest at either the Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate at our option, plus an applicable margin.
Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.375%.
Base rate advances bear interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
The base rate applicable margin is based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.000% to 0.375%.
Any remaining borrowings under the Term Loan Facility are due and payable in full on June 29, 2023.
The Term Loan Facility allows for borrowings to bear interest at either a Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate, at our option, in each case plus an applicable margin.
Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S.
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the LIBOR or screen rate for the applicable currency plus an applicable margin.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.250%.
Base Rate advances bear interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
The base rate applicable margin is based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.0% to 0.25%.
We are required to pay certain fees in connection with the Credit Agreement, including administrative service fees and annual facility fees.
The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by our leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest expense coverage ratio (“Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”), as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement.
These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period.
The Credit Agreement generally allows for a Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50, subject to certain conditions, as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement.
We were in compliance with all financial covenants under the Credit Agreement as of May 31, 2019.
At May 31, 2019, we had additional borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement of $794.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility less the outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of May 31, 2019, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $9.5 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under our casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for our industrial revenue bond, which includes the $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility.
At May 31, 2019, we had $350.0 million of publicly-traded, senior unsecured notes outstanding at a 6% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in December 2019 (the “Unsecured Notes”).
Although the Unsecured Notes will mature within one year from May 31, 2019, we have the ability and intent to refinance these borrowings using availability under our Term Loan Facility, subject to satisfying the applicable conditions precedent.
Currently, we plan to refinance the Unsecured Notes in full at maturity with borrowings under the Term Loan Facility, of which $341.1 million of the current carrying value of the Unsecured Notes would be due more than one year from the anticipated refinancing date.
As such, this amount is reflected within Long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 2019.
We also had $4.0 million of tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds that are scheduled to mature in 2021 and $2.8 million
outstanding under fixed-rate bank loans outstanding at May 31, 2019.
Further discussion of our long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings, partially offset by interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents.
Our products generally have a standard warranty term of five years that assure our products comply with agreed upon specifications.
Estimated future warranty and recall costs are primarily based on historical experience of identified warranty and recall claims.
However, we cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.
We account for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of our equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into our director deferred compensation plan or our supplemental deferred savings plan.
Further details regarding each of these award programs and our share-based payments are included within the Share-based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Further details regarding our pension plans are included within the Pension and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
As of May 31, 2019, the estimated undistributed earnings from foreign subsidiaries was $84.4 million.
In December 2009, ABL, the 100% owned and principal operating subsidiary of Acuity Brands, refinanced the then current outstanding debt through the issuance of the Unsecured Notes.
See Debt and Lines of Credit footnote for further information.
In accordance with the registration rights agreement by and between ABL and the guarantors to the Unsecured Notes and the initial purchasers of the Unsecured Notes, ABL and the guarantors to the Notes filed a registration statement with the SEC for an offer to exchange the Unsecured Notes for an issue of SEC-registered notes with identical terms.
Due to the filing of the registration statement and offer to exchange, we determined the need for compliance with Rule 3-10 of SEC Regulation S-X (“Rule 3-10”).
In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, we have included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule 3-10(d) of SEC Regulation S-X since the Unsecured Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding.
The column marked “Parent” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands.
The column marked “Subsidiary Issuer” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL.
The column entitled “Subsidiary Guarantor” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL IP Holding.
Lastly, the column listed as “Non-Guarantors” includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries.
Consolidating adjustments were necessary in order to arrive at consolidated amounts.
In addition, the equity method of accounting was used to calculate investments in subsidiaries.
However, we cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Item 1a.Risk Factors
Risk Factors of our Form 10-K.
On June 28, 2019, the the Board of Directors (the “Board”) declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share.
The dividend is payable on August 1, 2019 to stockholders of record on July 17, 2019.
•elimination of annual Diluted Earnings Per Share as a metric under both the cash bonus and equity incentive plans.
This summary of the amendments to the SERP and SDSP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Acuity Brands, Inc. 2002 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2003, as amended and restated effective as of July 1, 2019, and the Acuity Brands, Inc. 2005 Supplemental Deferred Savings Plan, as amended and restated effective July 1, 2019, except where otherwise noted, which are set forth in Exhibits 10(b) and 10(c) to this Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q.
Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
 (b)Certificate of Amendment of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
 (c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.C of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
1 dated as of April 22, 2019 to Credit Agreement dated as of June 29, 2018.
Reference is made to Exhibit 10.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on April 24, 2019, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (b)Acuity Brands, Inc. 2005 Supplemental Deferred Savings Plan as Amended and Restated effective July 1, 2019
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 (c)Acuity Brands, Inc. 2002 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan Amended and Restated as of July 1, 2019.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 101.INSXBRL Instance Document The instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
