Item 1.Financial Statements
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
1.Description of Business and Basis of Presentation
Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by the Company in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company’s consolidated financial position as of November 30, 2017, the consolidated comprehensive income for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, and the consolidated cash flows for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016.
However, the Company believes that the disclosures included herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
No material reclassifications occurred during the current period.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 effective as of September 1, 2017.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets.
If so, the transaction does not qualify as a business.
The guidance also requires an acquired business to include at least one substantive process and narrows the definition of outputs.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2017-01 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows including debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance.
ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2017.
The Company intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019, and the provisions of ASU 2016-15 are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statement disclosures.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (“ASU 2016-02”), which requires lessees to include most leases on the balance sheet.
ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2018.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2016-02 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2020.
The Company has an implementation team tasked with identifying potential differences that will result from applying the new revenue recognition standard to the Company's contracts with its customers.
The implementation team reports the findings and progress of the project to management on a frequent basis and to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
The implementation team has completed its initial phase of contract reviews and continues to evaluate the results of those reviews with respect to potential changes from adopting the new standard on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Additionally, the implementation team is in the process of identifying appropriate changes to the Company's business processes, systems, and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard.
Based on the implementation team's current findings and the overall expected immaterial impact of adoption, the implementation team is currently evaluating which adoption method would provide the most meaningful information to the Company's stakeholders.
The Company will adopt the requirements of the new standard no later than the effective date of September 1, 2018.
The Company determines fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability.
Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i) unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level 1), (ii) quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level 2), and (iii) prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level 3).
The Company's cash and cash equivalents (Level 1), which are required to be carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis, were $428.6 million and $311.1 million as of November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, respectively.
The Company utilizes valuation methodologies to determine the fair values of its financial assets and liabilities in conformity with the concepts of “exit price” and the fair value hierarchy as prescribed in ASC 820.
There were no material changes to the valuation methods or assumptions used to determine fair values during the current period.
The Company used quoted market prices to determine the fair value of Level 1 assets and liabilities.
No transfers between the levels of the fair value hierarchy occurred during the current fiscal period.
In the event of a transfer in or out of a level within the fair value hierarchy, the transfers would be recognized on the date of occurrence.
Disclosures of fair value information about financial instruments (whether or not recognized in the balance sheet), for which it is practicable to estimate that value, are required each reporting period in addition to any financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis as prescribed by ASC Topic 825, Financial Instruments (“ASC 825”).
Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows.
The senior unsecured public notes are carried at the outstanding balance, net of unamortized bond discount and deferred costs, as of the end of the reporting period.
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The industrial revenue bond is carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period.
The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, the Company estimates that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of November 30, 2017 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The bank loans are carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period.
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
ASC 825 excludes certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments from its disclosure requirements.
Accordingly, the aggregate fair value amounts presented do not represent the underlying value to the Company.
5.Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of trade names that are expected to generate cash flows indefinitely.
 The Company recorded amortization expense of $6.6 million and $5.9 million during the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Amortization expense is generally recorded on a straight-line basis and is expected to be approximately $26.2 million in fiscal 2018, $26.1 million in fiscal 2019, $25.8 million in fiscal 2020, $23.0 million in fiscal 2021, and $21.2 million in fiscal 2022.
Further discussion of the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
Basic earnings per share for the periods presented is computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding.
Further discussion of the Company’s stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
Other comprehensive income (loss) for the Company includes foreign currency translation and pension adjustments.
On August 27, 2014, the Company executed a $250.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”).
The Revolving Credit Facility will mature, and all amounts outstanding will be due and payable, on August 27, 2019.
Generally, amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a Eurocurrency Rate.
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the London Inter Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) for the applicable currency plus a margin as determined by the Company's leverage ratio (“Applicable Margin”).
The Applicable Margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.575%.
Additionally, the Company is required to pay certain fees in connection with the Revolving Credit Facility, including administrative service fees and an annual facility fee.
The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by the Company’s leverage ratio as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility.
The Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio (“Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization expense (“EBITDA”), as such terms are defined in the Revolving Credit Facility agreement.
These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period.
The Revolving Credit Facility allows for a Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50, subject to certain conditions defined in the financing agreement.
As of November 30, 2017, the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $10.2 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under the Company's casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for the Company’s industrial revenue bond (not an outstanding amount under the Revolving Credit Facility).
At November 30, 2017, the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $244.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility.
At November 30, 2017, the Company had $350.0 million of publicly-traded, senior unsecured notes outstanding at a 6% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in December 2019 (the “Unsecured Notes”) and $4.0 million of tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds that are scheduled to mature in 2021.
Further discussion of the Company's long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings, partially offset by interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents.
The Company's products generally have a standard warranty term of five years.
The Company records an allowance for the estimated amount of future warranty costs when the related revenue is recognized.
In certain limited cases, the Company has warranty arrangements for terms that exceed the standard term.
However, the Company cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.
The Company accounts for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors of the Company, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of the Company's equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into the Company's director deferred compensation plan or the Company's supplemental deferred savings plan.
Further details regarding each of these award programs and the Company's share-based payments are included within the Share-based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
Further details regarding the Company's pension plans are included within the Pension and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
1) (the “Act”), which is expected to have a materially favorable impact to the Company's net income, cash flows, and diluted earnings per share in future periods.
The Act reduces the federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.
15.Supplemental Guarantor Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements
In December 2009, ABL, the 100% owned and principal operating subsidiary of Acuity Brands, refinanced the then current outstanding debt through the issuance of the Notes.
See Debt and Lines of Credit footnote for further information.
In accordance with the registration rights agreement by and between ABL and the guarantors to the Notes and the initial purchasers of the Notes, ABL and the guarantors to the Notes filed a registration statement with the SEC for an offer to exchange the Notes for an issue of SEC-registered notes with identical terms.
Due to the filing of the registration statement and offer to exchange, the Company determined the need for compliance with Rule 3-10 of SEC Regulation S-X (“Rule 3-10”).
In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, the Company has included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule 3-10(d) of SEC Regulation S-X since the Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding.
The column marked “Parent” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands.
The column marked “Subsidiary Issuer” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL.
The column entitled “Subsidiary Guarantor” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL IP Holding.
Lastly, the column listed as “Non-Guarantors” includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries.
Consolidating adjustments were necessary in order to arrive at consolidated amounts.
However, the Company cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Item 1a.Risk Factors
Risk Factors of the Company’s Form 10-K.
At the Company's annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018, in Atlanta, Georgia, the stockholders considered and voted on the following proposals.
Additionally, the Board determined that the Company will hold future non-binding, advisory votes of stockholders to approve the compensation of the named executive officers every year, consistent with the results of the vote at the annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018.
This advisory vote will occur annually until the Board otherwise elects a different frequency for such non-binding, advisory votes or until another non-binding, advisory stockholder vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on executive compensation occurs.
The Company expects to publish a policy on sustainability, which it anticipates will be available on the Company’s website in the near future.
The policy will describe and formalize the Company's ESG policies, including key performance indicators related to ESG matters that are material to the business.
On January 5, 2018, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share.
The dividend is payable on February 1, 2018 to stockholders of record on January 22, 2018.
On January 5, 2018, the Board reduced the size of the Board from 12 members to 11 members following the retirement of Gordon D. Harnett from the Board effective January 5, 2018.
Mr. Harnett advised the Company that his decision to retire did not involve any disagreement with the Company.
Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
 (b)Certificate of Amendment of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
 (c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.C of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
EXHIBIT 10(iii)A(1)Amended and Restated Acuity Brands, Inc. 2012 Omnibus Stock Incentive Compensation Plan.
 (2)Acuity Brands, Inc. 2017 Management Cash Incentive Plan.
Reference is made to Annex B of the registrant’s Proxy Statement as filed with the Commission on November 21,2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
