fls.txt



item1.txt
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” As part of the continued implementation of our esports strategy, we instituted changes to our internal organization and reporting structure during 2017 such that the Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business operates as a division of Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (“Blizzard”).
Commencing with the second quarter of 2017, MLG, which was previously a separate operating segment, became a component of the Blizzard operating segment.
MLG is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League™, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
As noted above, Blizzard also includes the activities of our MLG business, which is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows include restricted cash of $17 million and $13 million, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
When control of the promised products and services is transferred to our customers, we recognize revenue in the amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for these products and services.


item2.txt
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination (the “Business Combination”) by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc. (“Vivendi Games”), then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” As part of the continued implementation of our esports strategy, we instituted changes to our internal organization and reporting structure during 2017 such that the Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business operates as a division of Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (“Blizzard”).
MLG is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League™, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
As noted above, Blizzard also includes the activities of our MLG business, which is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The Company’s financial results for 2018 are presented in accordance with a new revenue accounting standard that was adopted in the first quarter of 2018.
Further information about our adoption of the new standard is provided in Notes 2 and 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
· consolidated net revenues increased 14% to $1.97 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 21% to $595 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.73 billion and consolidated operating income of $493 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $1.46 billion, or 74% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $1.39 billion, or 80% of consolidated net revenues, for the three months ended March 31, 2017; · operating margin was 30.3%, as compared with 28.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2017; · diluted earnings per common share increased 16% to $0.65, as compared to $0.56 for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period.
Average MAUs decreased by 11 million, or 3%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017.
Average MAUs decreased by 57 million, or 13%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.


item3.txt
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts.
The fair values of our foreign currency contracts are estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period.


item4.txt



part2.txt



