fls.txt



item1.txt
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.
For the six months ended June 30, 2017, the beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows included restricted cash of $17 million and $10 million, respectively.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
When control of the promised products and services is transferred to our customers, we recognize revenue in the amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for these products and services.
For these products, we recognize revenues on the later of the street date and the date the product is sold to our customer.
Revenues from product sales are recognized after deducting the estimated allowance for returns and price protection, which are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize.
For our online hosted software arrangements, such as titles for the Destiny, Overwatch, World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush franchises, substantially all gameplay and functionality are obtained through our continuous hosting of the game content for the player.
For World of Warcraft, after the first month of free usage that is included with the initial purchase of World of Warcraft software, the World of Warcraft end user may enter into a subscription agreement for additional future access.


item2.txt
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
Further information about our adoption of the new standard is provided in Notes 2 and 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
· consolidated net revenues increased 1% to $1.64 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 28% to $434 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.63 billion and consolidated operating income of $339 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $1.26 billion, or 77% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $1.31 billion, or 80% of consolidated net revenues, for the three months ended June 30, 2017; · operating margin was 26.4%, as compared to 20.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2017; · diluted earnings per common share increased 63% to $0.52, as compared to $0.32 for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
· consolidated net revenues increased 7% to $3.61 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 24% to $1.0 billion, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $3.36 billion and consolidated operating income of $831 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $2.72 billion, or 75% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $2.69 billion, or 80% of consolidated net revenues, for the six months ended June 30, 2017; · operating margin was 28.5%, as compared to 24.8% for the six months ended June 30, 2017; The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.
YTD Q2 2018 vs. YTD Q2 2017 · higher net bookings from the Candy Crush franchise due to increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features.
We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period.
For Blizzard, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user.
Average MAUs decreased by 22 million, or 6%, for the three months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The sequential decrease in King’s average MAUs is due to decreases across franchises and less engaged users leaving the network.
The sequential decrease in Activision’s average MAUs is due primarily to lower MAUs for the Call of Duty franchise.
Average MAUs decreased by 55 million, or 14%, for the three months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017.
The year-over-year decrease in King’s average MAUs is due to decreases across King’s franchises due to less engaged users leaving the network.


item3.txt
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts.


item4.txt



part2.txt



