fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A., and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform.
As part of this termination, Activision agreed to transfer its publishing rights for the Destiny franchise to Bungie in exchange for cash and Bungie’s assumption of on-going customer obligations of Activision.
Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.


item2.txt
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A, and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”), is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform.
Activision’s key product franchise is Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms.
In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie, Inc. (“Bungie”) to publish games in the Destiny franchise.
Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise.
King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.
•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, Activision released CrashTM Team Racing Nitro-Fueled and Blizzard released the latest expansion to Hearthstone—Rise of ShadowsTM.
We monitor net bookings as a key operating metric in evaluating the performance of our business.
Net bookings is the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically in the period, and includes license fees, merchandise, and publisher incentives, among others.
Net bookings is equal to net revenues excluding the impact from deferrals.
Q2 2019 vs. Q2 2018 YTD Q2 2019 vs. YTD Q2 2018 MAUs are the number of individuals who accessed a particular game in a given month.
We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period.


item3.txt
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts.
The fair values of our foreign currency contracts are estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Initial Decision described the basis for issuing a transfer pricing assessment of approximately 3.5kr billion (approximately $379 million), primarily concerning an alleged intercompany asset transfer.


