fls.txt
The ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report and with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.


item1.txt
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
Throughout this report, the terms the "Company" and "CDW" refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of March 31, 2019 and for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial statements.
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
Except as noted below for the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases ("Topic 842"), there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The Company enters into operating lease contracts, as assessed at contract inception, primarily for real estate, data centers and equipment.
In determining the present value of future lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date.
For real estate and data center contracts, the Company accounts for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
For certain equipment leases, the Company applies a portfolio approach to account for the right-of-use asset and operating lease liability.
In assessing the lease term, the Company includes options to renew only when it is reasonably certain that it will be exercised; a determination which is at the sole discretion of the Company.
Generally, for leases with an initial term of 12 months or less, the Company has elected to not record a right-of-use asset and lease liability.


item2.txt
In addition to Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin, we believe that the most important financial and non-financial measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per common share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable plus days of supply in Inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.
In this Form 10-Q, we discuss Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP operating income margin, Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income, which are non-GAAP financial measures.
For the definitions of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, see "Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations."
Total Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $352 million, or 9.7%, to $3,958 million, compared to $3,606 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
There was one fewer selling day in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018, and Net sales on an average daily sales basis increased 11.5%.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, Net sales growth reflected growth across most major product categories, particularly client devices, software, servers and enterprise storage.
Additionally, strong results from our international operations, including two months of Net sales from Scalar Decisions Inc.
Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $170 million, or 10.9%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.
On an average daily sales basis, Corporate segment Net sales increased 12.6%.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased by $28 million, or 8.5%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.
On an average daily sales basis, Small Business segment Net sales increased 10.3%.
Public segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $101 million, or 8.2%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.
On an average daily sales basis, Public segment Net sales increased 9.9%.
On an average daily sales basis, Net sales to Government and Healthcare customers increased 18.6% and 8.4%, respectively, both primarily driven by customers modernizing their infrastructure, including servers and enterprise storage.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


