fls.txt
This ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report and with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.


item1.txt
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
Throughout this report, the terms the "Company" and "CDW" refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the requirements of Topic 606 utilizing the full retrospective method as discussed in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements).
Except as noted above for the adoption of Topic 606, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company is the principal in the transaction and recognizes revenue for drop-shipment arrangements on a gross basis.
The Company recognizes revenue from these transactions when control has passed to the customer, which is usually upon delivery of the product to the customer.
For these transactions, the Company deems that control passes to the customer when the product is ready for delivery.
Revenues from most software license sales are recognized as a single performance obligation on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in these transactions at the point the software license is delivered to the customer.
The Company evaluates whether the software assurance is a separate performance obligation by assessing if the third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software itself.
If the Company determines that the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software license, the software license and the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance are recognized as a single performance obligation.
The value of the product is primarily the accompanying support delivered by a third-party and therefore the Company is acting as an agent in these transactions and recognizes them on a net basis at the point the associated software license is delivered to the customer.
For software licenses where the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is not critical or essential to the core functionality, the software assurance is recognized as a separate performance obligation, with the associated revenue recognized on a net basis at the point the related software license is delivered to the customer.
The Company considers these service-type warranties to be separate performance obligations from the underlying product.
For service-type warranties, the Company is arranging for those services to be provided by the third-party and therefore is acting as an agent in the transaction and records revenue on a net basis at the point of sale.
SaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to offer the Company's customers access to software in the cloud that enhances office productivity, provides security or assists in collaboration.


item2.txt
We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per common share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable plus days of supply in Inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit and leverage ratios, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.
In this Form 10-Q, we discuss Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin, which are non-GAAP financial measures.
Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA is a measure in the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Term Loan Facility ("Term Loan"), which is used to evaluate our ability to make certain investments, incur additional debt, and make restricted payments, such as dividends and share repurchases, as well as whether we are required to make additional principal prepayments on the Term Loan beyond the quarterly amortization payments.
For further details regarding the Term Loan, see Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements within Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Total Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $350 million, or 10.8%, to $3,606 million, compared to $3,256 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
See “Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations” below for additional information regarding constant currency Net Sales growth.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, ongoing focus on client refresh drove growth within transactional products and we saw an increase in solution-based sales, led by software.
Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $125 million, or 8.7%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased by $36 million, or 12.2%, between periods.
Public segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $76 million, or 6.6%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Net sales to Government customers increased $44 million.
Education Net sales increased 1.0%.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


