fls.txt
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are normal and recurring, have been included in order to make the information not misleading.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Inc. (“Cables Unlimited”), Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc. (“Comnet”), and Rel-Tech Electronics, Inc. (“Rel-Tech”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of RF Industries, Ltd. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, the Company did not recognize any royalty income.
For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $34,000 and $162,000 of royalty income, respectively, for RadioMobile, which amounts of which have been included within discontinued operations.
The closure is part of the Company’s ongoing plan to close or dispose of underperforming divisions that are not part of the Company’s core operations.
For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $0 and $10,000 of income from sale of equipment for the Bioconnect division, respectively, which amounts have been included within discontinued operations.
One vendor accounted for 46% of inventory purchases for the three months ended July 31, 2018.
This same vendor accounted for 41% of inventory purchases for the nine months ended July 31, 2018.
Long-term portion of notes receivable of $0 and $21,000 is recorded in other assets at July 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017, respectively.


item2.txt
The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
Through its four manufacturing and production facilities, the Company provides a wide selection of interconnect products and solutions primarily to telecommunications carriers and equipment manufacturers, wireless and network infrastructure carriers and manufacturers, Data Center and Co-location companies, and to various original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in several market segments.
Subsequent to the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017, the Company experienced a substantial increase in orders for its products in the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment.
During the quarter ended April 30, 2018, the Company filled most of the January 31, 2018 backlog, which contributed to the large sale increase for the three months ended April 30, 2018.
Despite shipping most of the January 31, 2018 backlog in the three month period ended April 30, 2018, backlog stood at $9.5 million and $7.8 million, as of April 30, 2018 and July 31, 2018, respectively, as a result of additional new orders received during the second and third quarter.
As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of July 31, 2018, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the balance of the current fiscal year.
This net decrease in cash was partially offset by an increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.6 million primarily from depreciation and amortization, and $0.2 million of stock-based compensation expense.
In addition, during the nine months ended July 31, 2018, the Company received $1.0 million from the exercise of stock options and paid out $0.5 million in dividends.
Management also believes that based on the Company’s current financial condition, its current backlog of unfulfilled orders and its anticipated future operations, the Company would be able to finance its expansion, if necessary.
Acquisitions may require the outlay of cash, which may reduce the Company’s liquidity and capital resources while dispositions may increase the Company’s cash position, liquidity and capital resources.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.


part2.txt
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report.
Nothing to report.


