fls.txt
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Inc. (“Cables Unlimited”), Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc. (“Comnet”), and Rel-Tech Electronics, Inc. (“Rel-Tech”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of RF Industries, Ltd. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, the Company did not recognize any royalty income.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $66,000 and $128,000 of royalty income, respectively, for RadioMobile, amounts of which have been included within discontinued operations.
The closure is part of the Company’s ongoing plan to close or dispose of underperforming divisions that are not part of the Company’s core operations.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $10,000 of income from sale of equipment for the Bioconnect division, which has been included within discontinued operations.
This same vendor accounted for 38% of inventory purchases for the six months ended April 30, 2018.
Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Potentially dilutive securities totaling 475,105 and 1,003,854 for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 563,838 and 1,003,854 for the six months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted per share amounts because of their anti-dilutive effect.
The Company’s current stock incentive plan provides for the granting of qualified and nonqualified options to the Company’s officers, directors and employees.


item2.txt
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
If a deduction reported on a tax return for an equity-based incentive award exceeds the cumulative compensation cost for those instruments recognized for financial reporting purposes, any resulting realized tax benefit that exceeds the previously calculated deferred tax asset for those instruments is considered an excess tax benefit, and is recognized as additional paid-in capital.
Subsequent to the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017, the Company experienced a substantial increase in orders for its products in the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment.
During the quarter ended April 30, 2018, the Company filled a substantial amount of the January 31, 2018 backlog, which contributed to the large sales for the three months ended April 30, 2018.
Despite shipping most of the January 31, 2018 backlog in the three month period ended April 30, 2018, the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment backlog stood at $9.5 million as of April 30, 2018 as a result of additional new orders received during the second quarter.
The Company is unable to predict future orders for its products, but it currently anticipates that its net sales for second half of the current fiscal year will likely be less than the first half.
The Company generated cash of $2.5 million during the six months ended April 30, 2018 due largely to the impact of increased sales, which resulted in net income of $3.7 million.
An increase in accounts receivable ($7.9 million) and inventories ($1.0 million) were partially offset by increased accounts payable ($4.6 million), accrued expenses ($1.7 million) and income taxes ($0.5 million).
This net decrease in cash was partially offset by an increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.5 million primarily from depreciation and amortization related to the acquisitions of Comnet, Rel-Tech and CompPro, and $0.1 million of stock-based compensation expense.
Management also believes that based on the Company’s current financial condition, its current backlog of unfulfilled orders and its anticipated future operations, the Company would be able to finance its expansion, if necessary.
Acquisitions may require the outlay of cash, which may reduce the Company’s liquidity and capital resources while dispositions may increase the Company’s cash position, liquidity and capital resources.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.


part2.txt
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report.
Nothing to report.


