fls.txt
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and two wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
Certain amounts in the prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and notes have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation of continuing operations and discontinued operations (see Note 2).
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Two vendors each accounted for 17% of inventory purchases for the three months ended January 31, 2019.
The Company has arrangements with these vendors to purchase products based on purchase orders periodically issued by the Company.
Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding increased by the effects of assuming that other potentially dilutive securities (such as stock options) outstanding during the period had been exercised and the treasury stock method had been applied.
Potentially issuable securities totaling 93,000 and 771,973 shares for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted per share amounts because of their anti-dilutive effect.
These options vested 8,000 shares on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 8,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next nine anniversaries of December 13, 2017, and expire ten years from the date of grant.
These options vested 5,000 each on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 5,000 shares each per year thereafter on each of the next four anniversaries of December 3, 2018, and expire five years from the date of grant.
These options vested 2,000 shares on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 2,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next four anniversaries of December 3, 2018, and expire five years from the date of grant.
No other options were granted to Company employees during the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018.


item2.txt
Certain items in inventory may be considered obsolete or excess and, as such, we periodically review our inventories for excess and slow moving items and make provisions as necessary to properly reflect inventory value.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.
Through its manufacturing and production facilities, the Company provides a wide selection of interconnect products and solutions primarily to telecommunications carriers and equipment manufacturers, wireless and network infrastructure carriers and manufacturers and to various original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in several market segments.
For the three months ended January 31, 2019, most of the Company’s revenues were generated from the Custom Cabling segment from the sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies, and wiring harnesses (which accounted for 69% of the Company’s total sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019).
Revenues from the RF Connector segment were generated from the sales of RF connector products and connector cable assemblies and accounted for 31% of the Company’s total sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019.
During the year ended October 31, 2018 (“fiscal year 2018”), the Company received an influx of sales orders from customers that resulted in a sharp increase in sales and backlog from the prior fiscal year ended October 31, 2017.
As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of January 31, 2019, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the balance of the current fiscal year.
The Company used cash of $2.3 million during the three months ended January 31, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end.
Net income of $0.6 million, with an added increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.1 million from depreciation and amortization and $0.1 million from stock-based compensation expense, was offset by an increase in accounts receivable ($1.4 million) and inventories ($1.1 million) as well as a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payout of prior year bonuses ($1.3 million) and an increase in accounts payable ($0.4 million).


item3.txt



item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.
As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of the end of the period covered by this report, management, under the supervision and with the participation of our then Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures.


part2.txt
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds Nothing to report.


