fls.txt
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that RF Industries, Ltd. formed for the sole purpose of acquiring the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P.
For all periods on or before January 31, 2019, references herein to the “Company” shall refer to RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, and Rel-Tech, and for all periods after January 31, 2019, references to the “Company” shall refer to RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises, collectively.
Certain amounts in the prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and notes have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation of continuing operations and discontinued operations (see Note 3).
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc., its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors.
The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations.
The results of C Enterprises, Inc.’s operations subsequent to March 15, 2019 have been included in the results of the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment (“Custom Cabling segment”) as well as in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations.
Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing consolidated net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding increased by the effects of assuming that other potentially dilutive securities (such as stock options) outstanding during the period had been exercised and the treasury stock method had been applied.
Potentially issuable securities totaling 121,015 and 475,105 shares for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 121,015 and 563,838 shares for the six months ended April 30, 3019, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted per share amounts because of their anti-dilutive effect.


item2.txt
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors.
The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
Through its manufacturing and production facilities, the Company provides a wide selection of interconnect products and solutions primarily to telecommunications carriers and equipment manufacturers, wireless and network infrastructure carriers and manufacturers and to various original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in several market segments.
For the six months ended April 30, 2019, most of the Company’s revenues were generated from the Custom Cabling segment from the sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies, and wiring harnesses (which accounted for 73% of the Company’s total sales for the six months ended April 30, 2019).
Revenues from the RF Connector segment were generated from the sales of RF connector products and connector cable assemblies and accounted for 27% of the Company’s total sales for the six months ended April 30, 2019.
As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of April 30, 2019, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the balance of the current fiscal year.
The Company used cash of $2.6 million during the six months ended April 30, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end.
Net income of $1.7 million, with an added increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.3 million from depreciation and amortization and $0.2 million from stock-based compensation expense, was offset by an increase in accounts receivable ($2.4 million) and inventories ($0.3 million) as well as a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payout of prior year bonuses ($0.8 million) and an increase in accounts payable ($0.7 million).
The Company used $0.8 million during the six months ended April 30, 2019 for capital expenditures and the purchase of the assets and business of C Enterprises.
Management also believes that based on the Company’s current financial condition, its current backlog of unfulfilled orders and its anticipated future operations, the Company would be able to finance its expansion, if necessary.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.


part2.txt
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report.
Nothing to report.


