fls.txt



item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing, and analytics.
In order to provide comparability between periods presented, those amounts of revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
The impact of adopting ASU 2014-09 on our total revenues for 2017 and 2016 was not material.
Under the new standard, we defer all incremental commission and related fringe benefit costs to obtain a contract and amortize these costs in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit.
We do not generally pay commissions for contract renewals.
Select adjusted unaudited financial statement information, which reflects our adoption of ASU 2014-09 is set forth below.
Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing, and analytics.
There is a concerted effort underway to optimize our portfolio of solutions and integrate powerful capabilities — such as built in data, analytics, artificial intelligence, payment processing and tailored user-specific experiences — to bring even greater value and performance to our customers.
We recently introduced Blackbaud Grantmaking™, our newest and most comprehensive grants management solution.
Donors funding scholarships, for example, will now have improved visibility given the integration with our digital marketing solutions.
This saves our customers time through automation, and provides them with a more robust set of tools to better enable their organizations for success.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our expanded sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity and effectiveness.
Our sales account executives now lead with a total-solution selling strategy, which we believe results in more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term.
We believe that attaching training, analytics, and payments to a deal improves the customer experience, improves outcomes, drives retention, and extends the customer lifetime value.
We have been executing this strategy for several years and have expanded our TAM by roughly $2 billion through acquired businesses over the last two years.
During the second quarter of 2017, we acquired AcademicWorks, adding scholarship management and stewardship software to our portfolio.
During the fourth quarter of 2017, we acquired UK-based JustGiving, one of the world’s leading online giving platforms, broadening our ability to serve both individual donors and nonprofits.
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and deliver improved profitability.
We have made transformational changes in the business, including infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments, to drive us towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute.
We have different courses spanning different functions and levels within the company enabling all of our employees to take ownership of their roles and move the company forward.
This has empowered our employees to improve their daily lives, advance the Blackbaud's strategic objectives, and ultimately drive more value to our customers.
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we also initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



