fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the documents incorporated herein by reference, contains forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty.


item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations for interim reporting of the SEC.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheet but recognize expenses in the income statement in a manner similar to previous guidance.
The way in which entities classify leases determines how to recognize lease-related revenue and expense.
to use the hindsight practical expedient, which permits entities to use hindsight in determining the lease term and assessing impairment.
Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019, as we recognized $121.6 million of lease liabilities and $113.4 million of right-of-use ("ROU") assets for those leases classified as operating leases.
Except for the accounting policy added for leases below as a result of adopting ASU 2016-02, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2019, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statement.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
We also introduced Blackbaud Purchase Cards integrated with Expense Management in Financial Edge NXT providing social good organizations with an efficient and convenient alternative to traditional procurement methods and paper-based payables processes such as checks, purchase orders, and invoices.
The market response to our expanded Education Management portfolio for Higher Education has been positive, with Blackbaud SKY enabling us to extend our proven K-12 Private School solutions up-market.
During the first quarter of 2019, we implemented a common sales leadership framework across the Company, providing our sales managers with best practice tools and training necessary to be successful.
With the sales structure transformation now largely done, the focus going forward will be adding additional sales headcount and improving productivity.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments In January 2019, we added another half-billion dollars in TAM when we completed our acquisition of YourCause, an industry leader in enterprise corporate social responsibility and employee engagement technology.
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and position us for long-term success.
This has been a multi-year program for us, and we expect to be largely complete by the end of 2019.
The increase in total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $5.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior.
For the twelve months ended March 31, 2019, approximately 92% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained.
At March 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were $25.2 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $583.6 million.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



