fls.txt
Furthermore, the inclusion of forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that future events, plans or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock unit awards (“restricted stock units”) and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
Represents a one-time cash-settled stock award that vested on November 30, 2017.
In June 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”).
Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Some of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
An operating segment’s performance is evaluated based on its pre-tax operating contribution, or segment income.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $5.0 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018, and $2.9 million and $21.4 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
As of May 31, 2019, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide.
Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale.
As of May 31, 2019, the Company has $2.0 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $416.5 million, $517.9 million and $480.1 million, respectively, as of May 31, 2019.
The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria).


item2.txt
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the nine months ended May 31, 2019, our largest customers include Amazon.com, Inc., Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Ingenico Group, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., and Nokia Networks.
Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.
During the three months ended May 31, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
In addition, the added cost structures associated with our acquisitions have historically been relatively insignificant when compared to our overall cost structure.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


