The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The Company has made certain reclassification adjustments to conform prior periods’ Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to the current presentation.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
(1) Represents a one-time cash-settled stock award that vested on November 30, 2017.
On October 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee approved the modification of vesting criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2015.
In July 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2017 Share Repurchase Program”).
The 2017 Share Repurchase Program expires on August 31, 2018.
Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, digital home, healthcare, industrial and energy, mobility, networking and telecommunications, packaging, point of sale and printing industries.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the six months ended February 28, 2018, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Ingenico S.A., LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., SolarEdge Technologies, Inc., Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.
In September 2017, our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico received significant hurricane damage.
As we continue to assess the impact to our operations, we may incur additional costs in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.Item 1.