fls.txt
Furthermore, the inclusion of forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that future events, plans or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
The Company has made certain reclassification adjustments to conform prior periods’ Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to the current presentation.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
(1)  Represents a one-time cash-settled stock award that vested on November 30, 2017.
On October 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee approved the modification of vesting criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2015.
In June 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”).
The 2018 Share Repurchase Program expires August 31, 2019.
Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Total segment assets are defined as accounts receivable, inventories, net, customer-related property, plant and equipment, intangible assets net of accumulated amortization and goodwill.
All other non-segment assets are reviewed on a global basis by management.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which the Company would transact with third parties.
As of May 31, 2018, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide.
Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale.
Total foreign net revenue represented 91.2% and 91.8% of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively, compared to 90.6% and 91.3% of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, respectively.


item2.txt
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, digital home, healthcare, industrial and energy, mobility, networking and telecommunications, packaging, point of sale and printing industries.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the nine months ended May 31, 2018, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, SolarEdge Technologies, Inc., Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.
In September 2017, our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico received significant hurricane damage.
We also expect the majority of these costs will ultimately be offset by insurance coverage.
(1)  The sales cycle is calculated as the sum of days in accounts receivable and days in inventory, less the days in accounts payable; accordingly, the variance in the sales cycle quarter over quarter is a direct result of changes in these indicators.
(2)  During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to increased sales activity during the quarter.
See Note 13 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
EMS segment revenues increased 8% primarily due to (i) a 3% increase in revenues from customers within our capital equipment business, (ii) a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our digital home business, (iii) a 2% increase in revenues from a new customer and existing customers within our industrial and energy business and (iv) a 1% increase in revenues from customers in our automotive and transportation business.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.


