fls.txt
Furthermore, the inclusion of forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that future events, plans or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
(1) Represents a one-time cash-settled stock award that vested on November 30, 2017.
On October 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee approved the modification of vesting criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2015.
In July 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2017 Share Repurchase Program”).
The 2017 Share Repurchase Program expires on August 31, 2018.
Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Almost all of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
An operating segment’s performance is evaluated based on its pre-tax operating contribution, or segment income.
Total segment assets are defined as accounts receivable, inventories, net customer-related property, plant and equipment, intangible assets net of accumulated amortization and goodwill.
All other non-segment assets are reviewed on a global basis by management.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
As of November 30, 2017, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide.


item2.txt
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, digital home, healthcare, industrial and energy, mobility, networking and telecommunications, packaging, point of sale and printing industries.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue, for the three months ended November 30, 2017, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Ingenico S.A., LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., SolarEdge Technologies, Inc., Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.
In September 2017, our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico received significant hurricane damage.
We also expect the majority of these costs will ultimately be offset by insurance coverage.
Management regularly reviews financial and non-financial performance indicators to assess the Company’s operating results.
During the three months ended May 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
See Note 13 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
Net Revenue.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.


