fls.txt
Furthermore, the inclusion of forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that future events, plans or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Jabil Inc. (the “Company”) has made certain reclassification adjustments to conform prior periods’ Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to the current presentation.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock unit awards (“restricted stock units”) and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
In June 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”).
The 2018 Share Repurchase Program expires August 31, 2019.
As of February 28, 2019, 13.9 million shares had been repurchased for $350.0 million, which utilized the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors.
Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Some of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $6.1 million for the three months ended February 28, 2018, and $2.9 million and $16.4 million for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
As of February 28, 2019, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide.
Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale.
As of February 28, 2019, the Company has $2.2 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.
The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria).
Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 were not material.


item2.txt
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the six months ended February 28, 2019, our largest customers include Amazon.com, Inc., Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
Net revenue increased during the three months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months ended February 28, 2018.
The decrease was partially offset by a 4% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


