fls.txt
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we created Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur”), a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company.
LMCS operates through its syndication network to facilitate merchant cash advance (“MCA”) funding by connecting a network of MCA originators (sometimes referred to herein as “funders”) with syndicate participants who provide those originators with capital by purchasing participation interests in funded MCAs. LMCS does business as “LuxeMark Capital” with daily operations led by the three principals of Old LuxeMark.
Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the Old LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs. The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs.
As of September 30, 2019, we have not recorded any charge-offs, and believe that an allowance for loan losses is not required.
As of September 30, 2019, all land held by the Company is considered to be held for use and development.
Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.
Weighted-average common share equivalents of 9,757 and 31,665 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the calculation, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.
All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased are considered to be cash equivalents.
We used Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our preferred stock investments.
We also use Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants related to the LuxeMark Acquisition.
The Company uses a Monte Carlo simulation technique to value the performance-based contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants.
The recent accounting guidance not yet adopted is consistent with the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
The amortized cost and fair values of fixed-maturity securities available for sale as of September 30, 2019 are shown by contractual maturity in the table below.


item2.txt
MCA revenue includes income from the discount at which we provide advances on future merchant receivables, as well as fees earned for sourcing both syndication capital and merchant leads for MCA funders.
We generate revenue from interest on loans by entering into commercial loan agreements to fund third party funders in the MCA industry and real estate industry.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we generated $1.7 million of total revenue, compared to $0.1 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2018, driven largely by the growth in our participation in the MCA industry.
Our net income for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 increased to $3.5 million, compared to a loss of $3.0 thousand in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
We generated $1.7 million of revenue from MCA operations during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $0 in the during the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Of that revenue, $0.8 million of revenue came from MCAs and $0.6 million of revenue was generated from syndication fee revenue from sourcing syndication capital and merchant leads for the MCA industry.
We generated $0.1 million of revenue from real estate operations during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $0.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Additionally, the principals of Old LuxeMark, who now lead the LMCS daily operations following closing of the LuxeMark Acquisition, are predominantly focused on generating incremental syndication fees and other MCA income for our MCA operations segment.
As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.2 million of sales and marketing expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2019.
General and administrative expenses were $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, a $0.2 million, or 23%, increase from the three months ended September 30, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.Risk Factors


