fls.txt
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” elsewhere herein and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2018.


item1.txt
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc.
(“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018.
Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we provided a $2,000 cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business.
The fee is earned over the six-month advance period and is reported as part of other interest income within the statement of operations.
Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year.


item2.txt
References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined to Real-Time, Inc. pursuant to an Asset and Share Purchase Agreement.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).
A special committee of the Board, the Investment Committee, was established upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders.
Other than the restrictions set forth in the relevant non-competition and non-solicitation agreement executed by the Company in connection with the disposition of our prior operations, there are no restrictions on the transactions that we can pursue, including with respect to industry sector and geographic location.
We continually identify and evaluate a wide range of opportunities in an effort to reinvest the proceeds of our calendar year 2017 business dispositions and maximize use of other assets such as our NOLs. We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all of our stockholders.
On October 2, 2018, we announced that the Company entered into a non-binding letter of intent (the “LOI”) to acquire an 80% membership interest in LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”), a privately held firm focused on the rapidly growing merchant cash advance sector of the finance industry that provides financing to small and medium-sized businesses.
LuxeMark provides syndication capital or leverage to select funding companies within the sector and hopes to expand its business-to-business strategy by increasing the number of qualified funders to which it provides capital nationwide.
Under the terms of the LOI, the Company will acquire the membership interest for a combination of up to $6 million in cash, and options and stock appreciation rights each payable over four years and subject to the achievement of prescribed financial performance milestones by LuxeMark.
We expect that the proposed transaction with LuxeMark will provide the Company with two revenue streams generated through (i) the Company’s 80% membership interest and thereby its pro-rated portion of the fee income earned by LuxeMark on its syndicators’ invested capital and (ii) returns received on the $10 million the Company makes available as a LuxeMark syndicator.
·a $0.1 million decrease in stock-based compensation resulting from the vesting of substantially all of our outstanding equity awards upon the change in control resulting from the sale the Content Delivery business in the prior year, coupled with minimal equity grants leading up to and following the completion of this business sale, which resulted in lower ongoing stock-based compensation expense in the current year period.


item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.


