fls.txt



item1.txt
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc.
(“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media assets and served industries and customers that demand uncompromising performance, reliability and flexibility to gain a competitive edge, drive meaningful growth and confidently deliver best-in-class solutions that enrich the lives of millions of people around the world every day.
The Company determines the appropriate classification of its investments in debt and equity securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such determinations at each balance sheet date.
Debt securities for which the Company does not have the intent or ability to hold to maturity are classified as available-for-sale.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the condensed consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported as fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt and marketable equity securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading, are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income (loss) and reported in stockholders’ equity.
ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted.
Primarily, the screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business.
The amendments contained in ASU 2017-01 are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and may be early adopted for certain transactions that have occurred before the effective date, but only when the underlying transaction has not been reported in the financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
Diluted net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of shares, including dilutive common share equivalents outstanding during each period.
Due to the loss from continuing operations for all periods presented, common share equivalents of 9,614 and 238,696 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and common share equivalents of 216,791 and 250,441 for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively,were excluded from the calculation as their effect was anti-dilutive.
As noted above, on December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima (the “CDN APA”) for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital).


item2.txt
Prior to the sale, we sold our Real-Time business products to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
Having divested both our Real-Time and Content Delivery businesses, we are now in the process of evaluating opportunities intended to maximize the value of our remaining assets, which consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments, escrow funds receivable, and approximately $56 million in U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards.
This process includes the evaluation of opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses intended to provide appreciation in value, thereby enhancing the Company’s liquidity, and potentially allowing us greater ability to utilize existing net operating loss carryforwards.
Our operating expenses during this evaluation period are limited to the cost of three employees, supported by contractors and former employees providing IT and accounting support under a transition services agreement with Vecima, audit and tax fees, legal fees, board of directors’ fees, fees to third parties engaged to find suitable investment targets, and various other expenses associated with maintaining our public filings.
Results of our Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 4 to the condensed consolidated financial statements).
Pursuant to the Escrow Agreement we entered into with Vecima on December 15, 2017, we received $29.02 million on the December 31, 2017 closing date, based upon the agreed upon sale price, which included $1.47 million for previously estimated working capital expected to transfer to Vecima above an agreed upon working capital target.
During the third quarter of our fiscal 2018, we and Vecima finalized the calculation of net working capital of the Content Delivery business as of December 31, 2017.


item4.txt
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures 


part2.txt
Additional risk factors are discussed in Part I, Item 1A.
In order to have our common stock resume trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market or another exchange, we will need to reapply to Nasdaq or such other exchange to have our stock listed.
The application process can be lengthy, and there is no assurance that Nasdaq or such other exchange will relist our common stock.
On March 5, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to 1 million shares of the Company’s common stock.
To the extent the Company engages in stock repurchases, such activity is subject to market conditions, such as the trading prices for our stock, as well as the terms of any stock purchase plans intended to comply with Rule 10b5-1 or Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).


