fls.txt



item1.txt
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc.
(“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
On February 13, 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”).
LMCS operates through its syndication network to facilitate merchant cash advance (“MCA”) funding by connecting a network of MCA originators (sometimes referred to herein as “funders”) with syndicate participants who provide those originators with additional capital by purchasing participation interests in funded MCAs. In addition, LMCS provides reporting and other administrative services to its syndication network.
Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs.
The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company accounts for acquisitions of entities that include inputs and processes and have the ability to create outputs as business combinations.
The Company allocates the purchase price of the acquisition to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and identifiable intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values.
The excess of the purchase price over those fair values is recorded as goodwill.
During the measurement period, the Company records adjustments to provisional amounts recorded for assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
After the measurement period, which could be up to one year after the transaction date, subsequent adjustments are recorded to the Company’s consolidated statements of operations.


item2.txt
References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2018 (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).
The Investment Committee, a special sub-committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board of Directors” or the “Board”), was established in December 2017 upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders.
Such alternatives include, but are not limited to, evaluating opportunities to acquire all or a controlling interest in one or more operating businesses or assets intended to provide attractive returns for our stockholders and that are intended to result in appreciation in value, a more liquid trading market for our stock, and enhance our ability to utilize our existing U.S. federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards.
The Asset Management Committee, among other things, continues the work of the former Investment Committee by providing oversight of the Company’s acquisition process and also manages the Company’s ongoing operations and assets (including continued expansion and development of its real estate and merchant cash advance (“MCA”) operations) and those of any subsequently acquired businesses.
On January 1, 2019, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board, the Board adopted the 2019 CCUR Bonus Plan, also referred to herein as the “NAV Program,” pursuant to which certain employees of the Company have the opportunity, among other things, to earn cash and equity incentive awards through a program based on growth in the Company’s net asset value (“NAV”).
On February 13, 2019, we closed on the Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which we acquired the LuxeMark operating assets through our newly formed LMCS subsidiary.
As consideration under the Purchase Agreement, at closing LMCS paid LuxeMark $1.2 million and issued warrants that will allow the three current LuxeMark principals to purchase up to an aggregate of 444,361 shares of the Company’s common stock, with vesting dependent upon LMCS achieving certain performance levels.
The consideration under the Purchase Agreement also includes four cash earnout payments of up to $1 million each year based on the performance of LMCS for the annual calendar periods of 2019 through 2022, in the aggregate not to exceed $4 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions.
Our ability to achieve investment and business objectives will be impacted by the performance of the Asset Manager and its ability to provide us with asset management and other services.
If, for any reason, the Asset Manager is unable to perform such services at the level we require, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected.
The Asset Manager has discretionary management over our portfolio of publicly traded securities, subject to our investment policy and oversight of the Board.
The Asset Manager has the ability to earn a management fee calculated based on the value of our total assets which may create incentive for the Asset Manager to invest, to the extent permitted by our investment policy, in investments with higher yield potential, that are generally riskier or more speculative, or sell an investment prematurely for a gain, in an effort to increase our short-term net income and thereby increase the fee to which it is entitled.
If our interests and those of the Asset Manager are not aligned, the execution of our business plan and results of operations could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.


