fls.txt



item1.txt
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc.
(“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media assets and served industries and customers that demand uncompromising performance, reliability and flexibility to gain a competitive edge, drive meaningful growth and confidently deliver best-in-class solutions that enrich the lives of millions of people around the world every day.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted.
The issuance of ASU 2017-01 provides a clarifying screen to determine when a set of assets and activities is not a business.
Primarily, the screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business.
The amendments contained in ASU 2017-01 are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and may be early adopted for certain transactions that have occurred before the effective date, but only when the underlying transaction has not been reported in the financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
Due to the loss from continuing operations for all periods presented, common share equivalents of 315,771 and 267,481 for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and common share equivalents of 322,570 and 265,845 for the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively,were excluded from the calculation as their effect was anti-dilutive.
As noted above, on December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima (the “CDN APA”) for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital).
The sale included our Content Delivery business assets and related liabilities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany, as well as the sale of all equity in our Japanese subsidiary.
Additionally, we may receive additional consideration, or be required to return a portion of the consideration received on the closing date, based on a final determination of the Content Delivery business’ net working capital as of the closing date.
Subsequent to December 31, 2017, based on our estimate of the working capital of the Content Delivery business as of the closing date, calculated in accordance with the procedures set forth in the CDN APA, we have accrued our estimate of the final post-closing working capital adjustment within our current liabilities on our December 31, 2017 balance sheet, to be paid by us to Vecima during the latter half of our fiscal year 2018.
In addition, we have reduced our estimate of the gain on the sale of the Content Delivery business by the amount of the estimated final post-closing working capital adjustment payment.


item2.txt
Having divested both our Real-Time and Content Delivery businesses, we are now in the process of evaluating opportunities intended to maximize the value of our remaining assets, which consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, short term investments, escrow funds receivable, and approximately $ 56 million in U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards.
This process includes the evaluation of opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses intended to provide appreciation in value, thereby enhancing the Company’s liquidity, and potentially allowing us greater ability to utilize existing net operating loss carryforwards.
Our operating expenses during this evaluation period are limited to the cost of three employees, supported by former employees providing IT and accounting support under a transition services agreement with Vecima, audit and tax fees, legal fees, board of directors’ fees, fees to third parties engaged to find suitable investment targets, and various other expenses associated with maintaining our public filings.
Results of our Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 4 to the condensed consolidated financial statements).
As a result, we have recognized the acceleration of the vesting and the lapse of restrictions on all restricted stock granted under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan and payment of any associated accrued dividends in connection with the consummation of the sale of the Content Delivery business to Vecima.


item4.txt
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures 


part2.txt
The amount of net proceeds that we receive from the sale of the Content Delivery business and Real-Time business remains subject to uncertainties.
Pursuant to the CDN APA, the purchase price payable by Vecima is subject to adjustment based on a net working capital target of $2.64 million.
In addition, $1.45 million of the purchase price payable by Vecima at closing has been placed into escrow and is subject to loss, in whole or in part after the closing, if Vecima successfully asserts claims for indemnification pursuant to the indemnification provisions of the CDN APA.
Furthermore, we may have unforeseen liabilities and expenses that must be satisfied from the after-tax net proceeds of the Content Delivery business sale, leaving less to fund our remaining operations.
In addition, $2 million of the purchase price payable by the RT Purchaser at closing of the sale of the Real-Time business was placed into escrow and remains subject to loss, in whole or in part, if the RT Purchaser successfully asserts claims for indemnification pursuant to the indemnification provisions of the Real-Time APA.
Stockholders are not guaranteed any of the proceeds from the sales of the Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses.
Our Board of Directors has instructed the Investment Committee to evaluate options to maximize the value of our remaining assets, including identifying potential opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses that provide opportunities for appreciation in value.


