The Company’s results for the three-month period ended December 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire 2019 fiscal year. References to the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 represent the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 
Compensation expense related to the restricted share awards was $1.1 million and $1.1 million for the three-month periods ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. There were 316,794 non-vested shares outstanding as of December 31, 2018. 
Approximately 52% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 19% of consolidated revenues) are accounted for over time as the products do not have alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for costs incurred plus a reasonable margin or the inventory is owned by the customer. The related contracts are primarily cost-plus or fixed price contracts related to the design, development and manufacture of complex fluid control products, quiet valves, manifolds, shock and vibration dampening, thermal insulation and systems primarily for the commercial aerospace and military (U.S. Government) markets. The contracts may contain multiple products, which are capable of being distinct as the customer could benefit from each product on its own or together with other readily available resources. Each product is separately identifiable from the other products in the contract. Therefore, each product is distinct in context of the contract and will be accounted for as a separate performance obligation. Our contracts are frequently modified for changes in contract specifications and requirements. Most of our contract modifications are for products that are not distinct from the existing contract and are accounted for as part of that existing contract. 
Approximately 75% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 17% of consolidated revenues) are recorded over time as the product does not have an alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for costs incurred plus a reasonable margin. Products accounted for under this guidance include the construction and installation of complex test chambers to a buyer’s specifications that provide its customers with the ability to measure and contain magnetic, electromagnetic and acoustic energy. The goods and services related to each installed test chamber are not distinct due to the significant amount of integration provided and each installed chamber is accounted for as a single performance obligation. Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for these contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products and service to be provided. We use milestones to measure progress for our Test segment contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs on our contracts. For arrangements that are accounted for under this guidance, the Company estimates profit as the difference between total revenue and total estimated cost of a contract and recognizes these revenues and costs based primarily on contract milestones. The transaction price for our contracts represents our best estimate of the consideration we will receive and includes assumptions regarding variable consideration as applicable. 
Included in this category, approximately 8% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 2% of consolidated revenues) are recognized based on the terms of the software contract. For contracts that transfer a software license to the customer, revenue will be recognized at a point in time. These type of software contracts represent a right to use the software, or a functional license, in which revenue should be recognized upon transfer of the license. For contracts in software as a service (SaaS) arrangements, revenue will be recognized over time. The customer receives and consumes the benefits of the SaaS arrangement through access to the system which is for a stated period. We will recognize revenue based on each day of providing access (straight-line over the contract term). The transaction price for our contracts represent our best estimate of the consideration we will receive and includes assumptions regarding variable consideration as applicable. Under the typical payment terms of our software contracts, the customer pays us in advance of when services are performed. Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer payment, these contracts result in deferred revenue, which we present as contract liabilities, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
Assets and liabilities related to our contracts with customers are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. At December 31, 2018, contract assets and liabilities totaled $94.1 million and $53.3 million, respectively. Upon adoption of ASC 606 on October 1, 2018, contract assets and liabilities related to our contracts with customers were $87 million and $51 million, respectively. During the first quarter of 2019, we recognized approximately $20 million in revenues that were included in the contract liabilities balance at the adoption date. 
Payment terms with customers vary by the type and location of the customer and the products or services offered. The Company does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of significant financing components based on the expectation that the period between when the Company transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less. Arrangements with customers that include payment terms extending beyond one year are not significant. 
Approximately 20% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 6% of consolidated revenues) are recognized over time as services are performed. The services accounted for under this method include an obligation to provide testing services using hardware and embedded software, software maintenance, training, lab testing, and consulting services. The related contracts contain a bundle of goods and services that are integrated in the context of the contract. Therefore, the goods and services are not distinct and the Company has a single performance obligation. Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for these contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products and service to be provided. We will recognize revenue as a series of distinct services based on each day of providing services (straight-line over the contract term) for our USG segment contracts. The transaction price for our contracts represents our best estimate of the consideration we will receive and includes assumptions regarding variable consideration as applicable. Under the typical payment terms of our service contracts, the customer pays us in advance of when services are performed. Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer payment, which is typically received upon commencement of the contract, these contracts result in deferred revenue, which we present as contract liabilities, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
Our significant accounting policies are included in Note 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2018. On October 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606). Significant changes to our policies resulting from the adoption are provided below. We adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective transition method applied to contracts that were not substantially complete at the end of fiscal year 2018. We recorded a $5.5 million adjustment to increase retained earnings to reflect the cumulative impact of adopting this standard at the beginning of fiscal year 2019, primarily related to certain long-term contracts our Filtration and Technical Packaging segments have that converted to the cost-to-cost method for revenue recognition. The comparative information has not been restated and is reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. A reconciliation of the financial statement line items impacted for the three months ended December 31, 2018 under ASC 606 to the prior accounting standards is provided in Note 14. 
Contracts with the U.S. Government generally contain clauses that provide lien rights to work-in-process along with clauses that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process. Due to the continuous transfer of control to the U.S. Government, we recognize revenue over the time that we perform under the contract.  
The Credit Facility requires, as determined by certain financial ratios, a facility fee ranging from 12.5 to 27.5 basis points per year on the unused portion. The terms of the facility provide that interest on borrowings may be calculated at a spread over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or based on the prime rate, at the Company’s election. The facility is secured by the unlimited guaranty of the Company’s material domestic subsidiaries and a 65% pledge of the material foreign subsidiaries’ share equity. The financial covenants of the Credit Facility include a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. The weighted average interest rates were 3.25% and 2.74% for the three-month periods ending December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. At December 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants. Net sales increased $9.1 million, or 5.2%, to $182.6 million in the first quarter of 2019 from $173.5 million in the first quarter of 2018. The increase in net sales in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018 was due to a $6.2 million increase in the Filtration segment, a $3.8 million increase in the Test segment and a $0.1 million increase in the USG segment, partially offset by a $0.9 million decrease in the Technical Packaging segment. 
In the first quarter of 2019, net sales of $19.2 million were $0.9 million, or 4.7%, lower than the $20.2 million in the first quarter of 2018. The decrease in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the decrease in net sales from Plastique driven by timing of projects. 
EBIT in the first quarter of 2019 was $3.3 million (8.0% of net sales) compared to $2.6 million (6.9% of net sales) in the first quarter of 2018. The increase in EBIT in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the increased sales volumes mainly from the segment’s U.S. operations. 
In the first quarter of 2019, net sales of $41.3 million were $3.8 million, or 10.0%, higher than the $37.5 million in the first quarter of 2018. The increase in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to higher sales from the segment’s U.S. operations due to the timing of test and measurement chamber projects. 
In the first quarter of 2019, net sales of $55.9 million were $0.1 million, or 0.2% higher than the $55.8 million in the first quarter of 2018. The increase in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was mainly due to net sales increases from Morgan Schaffer and the Vanguard Instruments product line and new products and software solutions at Doble partially offset by a decrease in net sales at NRG due to softness in the renewable energy market. 
In the first quarter of 2019, net sales of $66.2 million were $6.2 million, or 10.3%, higher than the $60.0 million in the first quarter of 2018. The sales increase in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was mainly due to a $3.2 million increase in net sales at Crissair due to higher aerospace shipments, a $2.3 million increase in net sales at Westland due to timing of revenue on government programs, a $1.5 million increase in net sales at PTI due to higher aerospace assembly shipments, a $1.5 million increase in net sales at Mayday due to higher aerospace shipments, partially offset by a $2.3 million decrease in net sales at VACCO due to lower revenue from its space products. 
EBIT in the first quarter of 2019 was $21.5 million (38.6% of net sales) compared to $10.7 million (19.1% of net sales) in the first quarter of 2018. The increase in EBIT in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was mainly due to the gain on sale of the Doble Watertown facility of approximately $8 million as well as an increase in EBIT from Morgan Schaffer and the Vanguard Instruments and Manta product lines. 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $8.1 million and $17.8 million in the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018 was driven by lower earnings and higher working capital requirements. 