fls.txt
We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash provided by operations, and the availability of additional funds under the Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund operations for at least the next 12 months; however, any projections of future financial needs and sources of working capital are subject to uncertainty.
Readers are cautioned to review the risks, uncertainties, and assumptions set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the section entitled "Certain Forward-Looking Information" and the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2018, and other periodic filings with the SEC, any of which could affect our estimates for future financial needs and sources of working capital.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance regarding the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments, which changes the impairment model for most financial assets.
The new model uses a forward-looking expected loss method, which will generally result in earlier recognition of allowances for losses.


part2.txt
For additional information about our material legal proceedings, please see Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies, of the accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
The actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses or delays, distract management from other revenue or acquisition opportunities, and increase the combined company’s expenses and working capital requirements, particularly in the short-term.
As a result, upon completion of the acquisition we increased our indebtedness in an amount materially greater than our historical indebtedness.
In addition, our failure to comply with the covenants could result in a default under the Credit Agreement and our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt or demand payment in exchange for a waiver of such default.
If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt as due.
Also, we generate a significant amount of our revenues from foreign customers.
•Compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom's Bribery Act.
A portion of our Consumer and Enterprise products contain Bluetooth technology and a number of our accessory products are manufactured in China.
importing our products.
As a consequence of our acquisition of Polycom, Inc. on July 2, 2018, we issued shares of our common stock to Triangle Private Holdings II, LLC ("Triangle"), an entity indirectly controlled by Siris Capital Group, LLC ("Siris"), equivalent to approximately 16% of our issued and outstanding shares, which made Triangle our largest single stockholder.
The interests of Triangle, Siris and its other affiliated entities and individuals may differ from the interests of other holders of our common stock.
Triangle will be permitted to sell up to one-third of the shares issued pursuant to the acquisition on July 2, 2019, up to two-thirds of their shares beginning on January 2, 2020 and all of the shares after July 2, 2020.
The average daily trading volume of our stock is limited, and any resale of the shares held by Triangle will increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading, which may depress the price of our stock.
The risks described here and on the Form 10-K are not the only risks we face.
On July 27, 2017 the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase 1,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time in the market or in privately negotiated repurchases as determined by management.
"Average Price Paid per Share" reflects open market repurchases of common stock only.


