Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash provided by operations, and the availability of additional funds under the Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund operations for at least the next 12 months; however, any projections of future financial needs and sources of working capital are subject to uncertainty.
Readers are cautioned to review the risks, uncertainties, and assumptions set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the section entitled "Certain Forward-Looking Information" and the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2017, and other periodic filings with the SEC, any of which could affect our estimates for future financial needs and sources of working capital.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2017.We are presently engaged in various legal actions arising in the normal course of business.
For additional information about our material legal proceedings, please see Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies, of the accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A.
Except as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors included in the Form 10-K. Changes in applicable tax regulations and resolutions of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”).
The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex.
As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted.