fls.txt
Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, cash provided by operations, and the availability of additional funds under the Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund operations for at least the next 12 months; however, any projections of future financial needs and sources of working capital are subject to uncertainty.
Readers are cautioned to review the risks, uncertainties, and assumptions set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the section entitled "Certain Forward-Looking Information" and the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2018, and other periodic filings with the SEC, any of which could affect our estimates for future financial needs and sources of working capital.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2018.


part2.txt
We are presently engaged in various legal actions arising in the normal course of business.
Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of assets acquired in business combinations.
We are required to annually test goodwill to determine if impairment has occurred, either through a quantitative or qualitative analysis.
Additionally, interim reviews must be performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred.
If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period the determination is made.
We cannot accurately predict the amount or timing of any impairment of assets.
"Average Price Paid per Share" reflects open market repurchases of common stock only.
The Company intends to enter into amended and restated agreements or amendments to existing agreements with each of the Executive Officers reflecting the approved changes.


