Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“Forward-Looking Statements”) with respect to the business of the Company.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these Forward-Looking Statements which may be necessary to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Any Forward-Looking Statement made by the Company is based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars in the text are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
When we cross-reference to a “Note,” we are referring to our “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise.
All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
After record bookings throughout 2018, the Company has experienced slower bookings during the first half of 2019 as customers work through their inventory on hand.
The Company experienced margin pressure during the second quarter of 2019 due to lower sales volumes and high material costs from 2018 which continue to run through the Company’s statement of operations.
As a result of these ongoing factors, the Company expects the balance of 2019 to remain challenging from both a sales and margin perspective.
The preceding sentence represents a Forward-Looking Statement.
During the first half of 2019, the Company repatriated $10.0 million of funds from outside of the U.S., with minimal incremental tax liability, and completed an intercompany loan from one of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries to its U.S. parent entity during the second quarter.
Management has current intentions to repatriate an additional $5.0 million of funds from outside of the U.S., with a minimal incremental tax liability, by the end of 2019 with the intent of reducing our outstanding debt balance.
The preceding sentence represents a Forward-Looking Statement.
We continue to analyze our global working capital and cash requirements and the potential tax liabilities attributable to further repatriation, and we have yet to make any further determination regarding repatriation of funds from outside the U.S. to fund the Company’s U.S. operations in the future.
In the event these funds were needed for Bel’s U.S. operations, the Company would be required to accrue and pay U.S. state taxes and any applicable foreign withholding taxes to repatriate these funds.
