fls.txt



item1.txt
Our Chief Operating Decision Makers (“CODM”), consisting of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), use our operating segment financial information to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources.
All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and performance-based restricted stock units (“PRUs”) as of the record date will be entitled to the dividend and dividend equivalents, respectively.
As a result, historical returns and related reserves have been insignificant.
Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment.
Such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses.
During the three months ended December 28, 2018, we recognized $831 million of revenue from our beginning third quarter of fiscal 2019 contract liabilities balance.
In October 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers, excluding inventory, at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under legacy GAAP.
Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations.
As of December 28, 2018 and March 30, 2018, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments was $179 million and $175 million, respectively.
For example, we may experience disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our website simultaneously, fraud or security attacks.
In general, our subsidiaries will not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available for that purpose.
Transition costs are incurred in connection with Board of Directors approved discrete strategic information technology transformation initiatives and primarily consist of consulting charges associated with our enterprise resource planning and supporting systems and costs to automate business processes.
We recorded an income tax benefit on discontinued operations of $3 million and $30 million for the three months ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017, respectively.
In the ordinary course of business, sales under these government contracting programs may be subject to audit or investigation by the U.S. government.
Some companies offer lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products.
These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our offerings.
Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment.


item2.txt
See Note 16 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our indemnifications.
As of December 28, 2018, the remaining balance of our stock repurchase authorization was $800 million.
See Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Changes in operating assets and liabilities consisted primarily of a decrease of $97 million in accounts receivable in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, reflecting higher collections versus billings.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation.
If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.
The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services.
To compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets.
As a result, we may issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel.
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
We intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any defense.
Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs and access to capital markets.
Any of the laws and regulations that apply to our business are subject to revision or new or changed interpretations, and we cannot predict the impact of such changes on our business.


