The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services.
Moreover, to be successful, large complex acquisitions depend on large-scale product, technology, and sales force integrations that are difficult to complete on a timely basis or at all and may be more susceptible to the special risks and challenges described above.
We have an unsecured revolving credit facility to borrow up to $1.0 billion through May 10, 2021.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
As of July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding under this revolving credit facility.
In addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business.
We lease certain of our facilities, equipment, and data center co-locations under operating leases that expire on various dates through fiscal 2029.
The expense of continuing to defend such litigation may be significant.
Derived from audited financial statements.
We monitor the conditions that are subject to indemnification to identify if a loss has occurred.
An alternative sale transaction, if available, may yield lower consideration than the proposed Sale, be on less favorable terms and conditions than those contained in the agreement and involve significant delay.Stock repurchases.
Operating income increased $73 million primarily due to higher revenue, lower advertising and promotion costs, and decreased allocated corporate costs.Further, in the event the directors and officers are ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover any amounts we previously advanced to them.
Any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers.
The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services.
Such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication, and if successful could expose us and the affected parties, to risk of loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information or disruptions of our business operations.
Such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication, and if successful could expose us and the affected parties, to risk of loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information or disruptions of our business operations.
Such initiatives may require significant separation activities that could result in the diversion of management’s time and attention, loss of employees, substantial separation costs, and accounting charges for asset impairments.