fls.txt
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021.


item1.txt
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted new guidance to simplify accounting for share-based payment transactions.
Skycure provides mobile threat defense for devices running modern operating systems, including iOS and Android.
On January 29, 2016, we completed the sale of Veritas.
We have not determined whether our accounting policy will be to record these amounts as deferred taxes or as period costs.
On January 29, 2016, we completed the sale of Veritas.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we entered into an accelerated stock repurchase (“ASR”) agreement with financial institutions to repurchase an aggregate of $500 million of our common stock.
There were no transfers between fair value measurement levels during the nine months ended December 29, 2017.
Income tax expense from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 was adjusted to reflect the discrete effects of the Act and resulted in an increase in income tax benefit of $810 million.
We are engaged in disputes of this nature at this time.
Our cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds whose carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value.
We remeasured certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on an estimate of the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future.
We monitor the conditions that are subject to indemnification to identify if a loss has occurred.
We are involved in a number of other judicial and administrative proceedings that are incidental to our business.


item2.txt
We are evaluating the impact to our consolidated financial statements as it relates to other aspects of the business.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 was based on the historic statutory tax rate of 35%.
Operating income increased $122 million, or 18%, primarily due to the contribution from the LifeLock acquisition.
The rate change is effective January 1, 2018 and therefore will require us to use a blended U.S. statutory rate of 31.58% for our fiscal year 2018.
Amortization of intangible assets increased $75 million primarily due to the intangible assets acquired in the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions.
See Note 5 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information for additional information regarding our estimates.
See Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our restructuring, transition and other costs.
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements.
The standard’s core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture.
During the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we also incurred divestiture costs as a result of the sale of our WSS and PKI solutions, as well as costs associated with our other transition and transformation programs including the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system and costs to automate business processes.
Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Asset Transfers Other Than Inventory.
We are also pioneering solutions in markets such as cloud security, digital safety, advanced threat protection, identity protection, information protection and cyber security services.
We were also impacted by the trends related to our Norton products discussed above.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management (with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”)) has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act).


part2.txt
†This exhibit is being furnished rather than filed, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing, in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.


