fls.txt



item1.txt
The interest rate we use to determine the present value of future payments is our incremental borrowing rate because the rate implicit in our leases is not readily determinable.
In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries, and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us.
We are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers.
Additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions.
No specific amount of damages has been alleged in these lawsuits.
On June 6, 2019, we filed a motion seeking summary judgment on all claims asserted by all plaintiffs, and the plaintiffs filed a motion for partial summary judgment on elements of liability on their claims.
Some companies offer lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products.
The Court granted the motion in part on October 2, 2019 and the first amended complaint was filed on October 11, 2019.
Resolution of False Claims Act investigations can ultimately result in the payment of somewhere between one and three times the actual damages proven by the government, plus civil penalties in some cases, depending upon a number of factors.
We expect to make income tax payments of approximately $55 million as a result of the transaction.
In addition, we have received demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under Delaware law.
In addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us confidential or proprietary information of these former employers.
On November 7, 2019, we announced a cash dividend of $0.125 per share of common stock to be paid in December 2019.
These facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption, or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events.
On November 7, 2019, we announced a cash dividend of $0.125 per share of common stock to be paid in December 2019.
These transitions have involved significant turnover in management and other key personnel and changes in our strategic direction.


item2.txt
•Operating income increased $223 million primarily due to revenue recognized in the additional week in the first six months of fiscal 2020, lower restructuring, transition and other expense, and lower stock-based compensation expense.
•Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, increased $696 million primarily due to higher income tax benefits.
We previously expected to recover the tax basis through normal operation of our Enterprise business, which is taxed at the Irish trading rate of 12.5%.
In order for a planned disposition to be classified as a business held for sale, the established criteria must be met as of the reporting date, including an active program to market the business and the expected disposition of the business within one year.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Additionally, third parties with whom we work, such as vendors or developers, may violate applicable laws or our policies and such violations can place personal information of our customers at risk.
The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our solutions.
Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of our outstanding securities in the future.
We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods.
Changes to our effective tax rate could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss).
In addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and streamlining initiatives will be as successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or streamlining of our operations.
As a result, we are dependent on Broadcom for services and technology that are critical to our business, and if Broadcom fails to deliver these Engine-Related Services it would result in significant business disruption, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.
Any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business.
We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.


