fls.txt



item1.txt
Because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released.
Our estimated reserves for channel volume incentive rebates are based on distributors’ and resellers’ performance compared to the terms and conditions of volume incentive rebate programs, which are typically entered into quarterly.
Competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, especially in and around our headquarters in Silicon Valley, and we face difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees as a result.
As of September 28, 2018, we had not met the requirements in the Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5, the revolving credit facility agreement, the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 to deliver audited financial statements for our fiscal year ended March 30, 2018 and file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for such period with the SEC.
Although in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel, reschedule or adjust with contract manufacturers and suppliers.
Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
As of September 28, 2018, we are required to pay a one-time transition tax of $920 million on untaxed foreign earnings of our foreign subsidiaries due in annual installments through July 2025 as a result of the Act.
•Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own solutions and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales.
It is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement new supply chain partner relationships and new manufacturing or fulfillment sites, and such additions increase the complexity of our supply chain management.
In addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us confidential or proprietary information of these former employers.
Additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information, and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions.
As of September 28, 2018, we had purchase obligations of $1,047 million associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services.
Severance costs generally include severance payments, outplacement services, health insurance coverage and legal costs.
Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs and access to capital markets.
These unallocated expenses consist primarily of stock-based compensation expense; amortization of intangible assets; restructuring, transition and other costs; and acquisition-related costs.
The fair values of all our debt obligations were based on Level 2 inputs.
Our competitors include software and cloud-based vendors that offer solutions that directly compete with our offerings.


item2.txt
We enter into arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which may include hardware, software licenses, cloud services, support and maintenance, and professional services.
Dividends.
Revenue decreased $112 million, primarily due to a $100 million decrease in revenue as a result of the fiscal 2018 divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
Under our stock repurchase program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through open market and through accelerated stock repurchase transactions.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Errors, failures, or bugs in solutions released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand and reputation, returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others.
By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner.
We sell our solutions to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks.
If manufacturing or logistics in these foreign countries is disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, IT system failures, military or government actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues, or if the purchase or sale of products from such foreign countries is prohibited or disfavored, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
We are subject to heightened regulation in our Consumer Digital Safety segment as a result of the sale of our identity and information protection products, which we began selling at the end of fiscal 2017 as a result of our acquisition of LifeLock, including a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act (“FTC Act”), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the FTC Act.
Should we wish to register the offer and sale of our securities to the public prior to the time we are eligible to use Form S-3, both our transaction costs and the amount of time required to complete the transaction could increase, making it more difficult to execute any such transaction successfully and potentially harming our financial condition.
We sell products and services through government contracting programs directly and via partners, though we no longer hold a GSA contract.
In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our solutions after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors.
Our cloud offerings present execution and competitive risks.


