fls.txt



item1.txt
Our business depends on customers renewing their arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and cloud-based (“cloud”) offerings.
The Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5 and our revolving credit facility contain customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and restrictions on subsidiary indebtedness, liens, stock repurchases and dividends (with exceptions permitting our regular quarterly dividend).
These risks may be exacerbated by the uncertainty associated with the acquisitions, divestitures and transitions we have experienced over the last few years.
In addition, certain of our products or key components of our products are currently manufactured by a single third-party supplier.
While we invest and devote significant resources to maintain and continually enhance and update our methods to detect and alert us to such breaches, attacks and disruptions, these efforts may not be sufficient, even with rapid detection, to prevent the damage such a breach of our products, solutions, cloud offerings, systems, and website may cause.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
Our estimated reserves for channel volume incentive rebates are based on distributors’ and resellers’ performance compared to the terms and conditions of volume incentive rebate programs, which are typically entered into quarterly.
As of June 29, 2018, we had purchase obligations of $619 million associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services.
A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
In 2012, a sealed civil lawsuit was filed against Symantec related to compliance with the GSA Schedule contract and contracts with California, Florida, and New York.
We will continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations.
Our estimated reserves for channel volume incentive rebates are based on distributors’ and resellers’ performance compared to the terms and conditions of volume incentive rebate programs, which are typically entered into quarterly.
We have fully cooperated with the government throughout its investigation and in January 2014, representatives of the government indicated that their initial analysis of our actual damages exposure from direct government sales under the GSA schedule was approximately $145 million; since the initial meeting, the government’s analysis of our potential damages exposure relating to direct sales has increased.
•Most of our OEM partners are not subject to minimum sales requirements.
Our Enterprise Security portfolio includes products, services and solutions that are delivered as part of an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform.
A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
In addition, we subsequently did not meet the requirements under the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for our fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2018 with the SEC by the specified deadline.


item2.txt
We recognize revenue primarily pursuant to the requirements under the authoritative guidance on contracts with customers.
Operating income decreased $38 million primarily due to our October 2017 divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions which contributed $59 million to operating income in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
We estimate that we will incur total costs in connection with the restructuring plan of approximately $50 million, primarily for severance and termination benefits.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly.
In addition, we have received certain demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under Delaware law.
Further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels.
Defects, disruptions or risks related to our cloud offerings could impair our ability to deliver our services and could expose us to liability, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business.
We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.
In addition, such third parties could be the target of cyberattack and other data breaches which could impact our systems or our customers’ records.
We recognize the costs associated with these research and development investments earlier than the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect.
Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent in part on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise.
In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time.


