item1.txt
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
There have been no significant changes to such accounting policies during the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019, except for adoption of ASC 842.
On July 25, 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Electronics Business for $145,000 in cash.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
The fair value of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate their carrying value due to their short-term nature.
The Company’s non-financial assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include goodwill and any long-lived assets written down to fair value.
To measure fair value of such assets, the Company uses Level 3 inputs consisting of techniques including an income approach and a market approach.
The income approach is based on a discounted cash flow analysis and calculates the fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to a reporting unit and then discounting the after-tax cash flows to a present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate.
Assumptions used in the discounted cash flow analysis require the exercise of significant judgment, including judgment about appropriate discount rates, terminal values, growth rates and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows.
There were no transfers between levels within the fair value hierarchy during the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 and August 26, 2018.


item2.txt
Park Aerospace Corp., formerly Park Electrochemical Corp., (“Park” or the “Company”) develops and manufactures solution and hot-melt advanced composite materials used to produce composite structures for the global aerospace markets.
Park offers an array of composite materials specifically designed for hand lay-up or automated fiber placement (AFP) manufacturing applications.
Park’s advanced composite materials are used to produce primary and secondary structures for jet engines, large and regional transport aircraft, military aircraft, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs commonly referred to as “drones”), business jets, general aviation aircraft and rotary wing aircraft.
As a complement to Park’s advanced composite materials offering, Park designs and fabricates composite parts, structures and assemblies and low volume tooling for the aerospace industry.
The Company’s earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and net earnings from continuing operations increased by 99% and 12%, respectively, in the 13 weeks ended September 1, 2019 compared to the 13 weeks ended August 26, 2018 primarily as a result of higher sales and higher interest income, partially offset by a higher tax provision compared to the prior year’s comparable period.
The Company’s earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and net earnings from continuing operations increased by 166% and 91%, respectively, in the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 compared to the 26 weeks ended August 26, 2018 primarily as a result of higher sales and higher interest income, partially offset by a higher tax provision compared to the prior year’s comparable period.
The Company’s gross profit from continuing operations in the 13 weeks ended September 1, 2019 was higher than its gross profit from continuing operations in the prior year’s comparable period.
The Company’s gross profit from continuing operations in the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 was higher than its gross profit from continuing operations in the prior year’s comparable period.
The decreases in such expenses during the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 were primarily the results of lower payroll, travel and entertainment and stock option expenses.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Certification of principal financial officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
Certification of principal executive officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Other Information.


