AJT is a developer of real-time live to air graphics rendering and video server systems for the broadcast TV industry. This acquisition will allow our organization to grow and strengthen our solution offerings to the market. This acquisition was primarily funded with cash on hand.
AJT Systems, Inc. Acquisition
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year. When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday. Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year. In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period. The nine months ended January 26, 2019 and January 27, 2018, contained operating results for 39 weeks.
In September 2017, we sold our non-digital division assets, primarily consisting of inventory, non-digital manufacturing equipment, patented and unpatented technology and know-how, customer lists, and backlog, net of warranty obligations and accounts payable with a net book value of $517. We recorded a gain of $1,267 on the disposal, which is included in cost of sales in the International business unit during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. No gain was recorded in the three or nine months ended January 26, 2019. 
Our warranty offerings are described in "Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies."
During the nine months ended January 26, 2019, we recognized revenue of $34,268 related to our contract liabilities as of April 28, 2018.
The time between contract order and project completion is typically less than 12 months but may extend longer depending on the amount of custom work and customers’ delivery needs.
See "Note 5. Segment Reporting" for a disaggregation of revenue by geography.
We account for these types of contracts as a combined single performance obligation with no segmentation between types of products and services. In our judgment, this accounting treatment is most appropriate because the substantial part of our promise to customers is to provide significant integration services and incorporates individual goods and services into a combined output or system. Often times, the system is customized or significantly modified to the customers' desired configurations and location, and the interrelated goods and services provide utility to the customers as a package. Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to an increase in the allocation of shared resources to this market's selling efforts. Selling expense in our Live Events business unit decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to reduced personnel related expenses.
to $2.1 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018; this was mostly related to the sale of our non-digital division assets in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we had a net cash outflow of $2.3 million for the acquisition of assets of AJT Systems, Inc. 
General and administrative expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and IT related systems. 
Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a change in the allocation of resources to this market's selling efforts. Selling expense in our International business unit increased in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to third-party commissions and increased personnel related expenses.
Orders for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago decreased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing. 
General and administrative expenses in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a decrease in professional fees.
Orders decreased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
Product design and development expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 remained relatively flat as compared to the same period one year ago. To deliver value to our customers and serve the markets' expectations, we expect a similar level of expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions for the remainder of fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018. 
The cost to manufacture and the selling prices of our products have decreased over time and are expected to continue to decrease in the future. As a result, each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years. This price decline has been significant as a result of increased competition across all business units.