AJT is a developer of real-time live to air graphics rendering and video server systems for the broadcast TV industry. This acquisition will allow our organization to grow and strengthen our solution offerings to the market. This acquisition was primarily funded with cash on hand.
AJT Systems, Inc. Acquisition
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year. When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday. Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year. In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period. The three months ended July 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, contained operating results for 13 weeks.
Our Commercial business unit primarily consists of sales of our integrated video display systems, digital billboards, Galaxy® and Fuelight™ product lines, and dynamic messaging systems to resellers (primarily sign companies), Out-of-Home ("OOH") companies, national retailers, quick-serve restaurants, casinos, commercial building owners, and petroleum retailers. Our Live Events business unit primarily consists of sales of integrated scoring and video display systems to college and professional sports facilities and convention centers and sales of our mobile display technology to video rental organizations and other live events type venues. Our High School Park and Recreation business unit primarily consists of sales of scoring systems, Galaxy® displays and video display systems to primary and secondary education facilities and resellers (primarily sign companies). Our Transportation business unit primarily consists of sales of intelligent transportation systems dynamic messaging signs for road management, mass transit, and aviation applications and other electronic signage for advertising and way-finding needs, which includes our Vanguard® and Galaxy® product lines and other intelligent transportation systems dynamic message signs, to governmental transportation departments, transportation industry contractors, airlines and other transportation related customers. Our International business unit consists of sales of all product lines outside the United States and Canada. In our International business unit, we focus on product lines related to integrated scoring and video display systems for sports and commercial applications, OOH advertising products, architectural lighting, and transportation related products. 
We do not maintain information on sales by products; therefore, disclosure of such information is not practical.
During the three months ended July 28, 2018, we recognized revenue of $23,805 related to our contract liabilities as of April 28, 2018.
We have numerous customers worldwide for sales of our products and services, and no customers accounted for 10% or more of net sales; therefore, we are not economically dependent on a limited number of customers for the sale of our products and services except with respect to our dependence on two major digital billboard customers in our Commercial business unit. 
The time between contract order and project completion is typically less than 12 months but may extend longer depending on the amount of custom work and customers’ delivery needs.
See "Note 5. Segment Reporting" for a disaggregation of revenue by geography.
Daktronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) are the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.Net cash used in operating activities was $10.3 million for the first three months of fiscal 2019 compared to net cash used in operating activities of $4.9 million in the first three months of fiscal 2018. The $5.4 million decrease in cash from operating activities from the first three months of fiscal 2018 to the first three months of fiscal 2019 was the net result of changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $1.4 million, a $0.1 million gain on the sale of property, equipment and other assets, $0.1 million in deferred income taxes, and a $3.9 million decrease in net income, adjusted by an increase of $0.1 million in other non-cash items, net.
Orders for the three months ended July 28, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing. 
Orders increased for the three months ended July 28, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increased demand for global OOH niche customers and professional sports stadiums and the related variability of timing caused by large projects.
General and administrative expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to decreases in professional fees and information technology software and hardware expenses. 
The cost to manufacture and the selling prices of our products have decreased over time and are expected to continue to decrease in the future. As a result, each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years. This price decline has been significant as a result of increased competition across all business units.
Product design and development expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increased labor costs and professional services assigned to product design and development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets. To deliver value to our customers and serve the markets' expectations, we expect similar level of expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions for the remainder of fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018. 
Selling expense in our Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation business units for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 remained relatively flat compared to the same quarter a year ago. Selling expense in our International business unit increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to third-party commissions and increased personnel expenses.
Orders increased for the three months ended July 28, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in projects for larger video systems.In connection with the sale of certain display systems, we have entered into various types of financing with customers. The aggregate amounts due from customers include an imputed interest element. The majority of these financings carry fixed rates of interest. As of July 28, 2018, our outstanding long-term receivables were $3.0 million. Each 25 basis point increase in interest rates would have an associated immaterial annual opportunity cost.