Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- to 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year. When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday. Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year. In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period. The nine months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017 contained operating results for 39 weeks. 
Note 7. Sale of Non-Digital Division
Our Commercial business unit primarily consists of sales of our video display systems, digital billboards, Galaxy® and Fuelight™ product lines to resellers (primarily sign companies), Out-of-Home ("OOH") companies, national retailers, quick-serve restaurants, casinos and petroleum retailers. Our Live Events business unit primarily consists of sales of integrated scoring and video display systems to college and professional sports facilities and convention centers and sales of our mobile display technology to video rental organizations and other live events type venues. Our High School Park and Recreation business unit primarily consists of sales of scoring systems, Galaxy® displays and video display systems to primary and secondary education facilities. Our Transportation business unit primarily consists of sales of our Vanguard® and Galaxy® product lines to governmental transportation departments, airlines and other transportation related customers. Our International business unit consists of sales of all product lines outside the United States and Canada. In our International business unit, we focus on product lines related to integrated scoring and video display systems for sports and commercial applications, OOH advertising products, and European transportation related products. 
We have numerous customers worldwide for sales of our products and services; therefore, we are not economically dependent on a limited number of customers for the sale of our products and services except with respect to our dependence on two major digital billboard customers in our Commercial business unit. 
We do not maintain information on sales by products; therefore, disclosure of such information is not practical.
Daktronics, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) is the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
Note 6. Business Combinations
During fiscal 2016, we discovered a warranty issue caused by a mechanical device failure within a module for displays primarily in our OOH applications built prior to fiscal 2013. The device failure causes a visual defect in the display. Over the past three years, we have deployed preventative maintenance to sites impacted and repaired the defective devices in our repair center. When certain site locations have exceeded an acceptable failure rate, we have refurbished the display to meet customers’ expectations under contractual obligations. During fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015 we recognized warranty expense for probable and reasonably estimated costs to remediate this issue of $1,766, $9,174, and $1,168, respectively. We recognized warranty expense related to this issue of $4,034 during the nine months ended January 27, 2018. This increased expense level is not the result of a new issue, but is primarily based on our decision to preserve our market leadership. We elected to expand the refurbishments for customer relationship purposes. As of January 27, 2018, we had $3,066 remaining in accrued warranty obligations for the estimate of probable future claims related to this issue. Although many of our contractual warranty arrangements are nearing expiration for products with this issue, we may incur additional discretionary costs to maintain customer relationships or for higher than expected failure rates. Accordingly, it is possible that the ultimate cost to resolve this matter may increase and be materially different from the amount of the current estimate and accrual.General and administrative expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to decreases in personnel expenses. 
Orders for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago decreased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing. 
Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to variability caused by large order timing. 
Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to fewer large sports video projects awarded during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
General and administrative expenses in the nine months ended January 27, 2018 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increases in personnel expenses and information technology software and hardware expenses.
Orders increased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the volatility of large order timing.
Orders increased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the volatility of large order timing. 
Product development expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increased labor costs and professional services assigned to product development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets. To deliver value to our customers and serve the markets' expectations, we plan to increase the level of expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions for the remainder of fiscal 2018 as compared to prior years. 
Orders decreased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to variability in order timing. Through January 27, 2018, most of our net sales were denominated in U.S. dollars, and our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes on net sales had not been significant. For the nine months ended January 27, 2018, net sales originating outside the United States were 16.1 percent of total net sales, of which a portion was denominated in Canadian dollars, Euros, Chinese renminbi, British pounds, Australian dollars, Brazilian reais or other currencies. We manufacture our products in the United States, China, Belgium, and Ireland. Our results of operations could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. If we believed currency risk in any foreign location is significant, we would utilize foreign exchange hedging contracts to manage our exposure to the currency fluctuations. 