AJT is a developer of real-time live to air graphics rendering and video server systems for the broadcast TV industry. This acquisition will allow our organization to grow and strengthen our solution offerings to the market. This acquisition was primarily funded with cash on hand and with payments made over a three-year period.
AJT Systems, Inc. Acquisition
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year. When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday. Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year. In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period. The fiscal year ended April 27, 2019 consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal 2020 will be a 53-week year; therefore, the six months ended November 2, 2019 contains operating results for 27 weeks while the six months ended October 27, 2018 contains operating results for 26 weeks.
We have numerous customers worldwide for sales of our products and services, and no customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales; therefore, we are not economically dependent on a limited number of customers for the sale of our products and services. 
During the six months ended November 2, 2019, we recognized revenue of $39,352 related to our contract liabilities as of April 27, 2019.
See "Note 5. Segment Reporting" for a disaggregation of revenue by geography.
Daktronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) are the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
In conducting our impairment testing, we compare the fair value of each of our business units to the related carrying value of the allocated assets. We utilize the income approach based on discounted projected cash flows to estimate the fair value of each unit. The projected cash flows use many estimates including market conditions and expected market demand; our ability to grow or maintain market share and gross profit; and our expected expenditures for capital and operating expenses. Assets shared or not directly attributed to a reportable segment's activities are allocated to the reportable segment based on sales and other measures. General and administrative expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and personnel related expenses. 
Selling expense in our Commercial and High School Park and Recreation business units increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to personnel related expenses and increased marketing efforts. Selling expense in our International business unit decreased in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to bad debt recovery and a decrease in third-party commissions. Selling expense in our Live Events and Transportation business units for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 remained relatively flat compared to the same quarter a year ago. 
Net cash used in operating activities was $10.3 million for the first six months of fiscal 2020 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $22.6 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019. The $32.9 million decrease in cash used in operating activities from the first six months of fiscal 2019 to the first six months of fiscal 2020 was the result of changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $33.8 million, $0.6 million in depreciation and amortization, and $0.6 million in other non-cash items, net, adjusted by a $1.1 million increase in net income and $1.0 million contingent liability adjustment.
The decrease in orders for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the softer market in the on-premise and OOH niches, partially offset by an increase in large orders in the spectacular niche. 
General and administrative expenses in the six months ended November 2, 2019 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and personnel related expenses. 
For orders, during the first six months ended November 2, 2019, we achieved a $12.5 million per week average run rate as compared to $12.0 million per week during the first six months ended October 27, 2018, or an approximate 4.8% increase. We had an increase in orders placed during the first six months ended November 2, 2019 related to new releases of our product offerings.
Orders decreased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the variability in order timing and a decrease in large video projects compared to the same period last year.
For net sales, during the first six months ended November 2, 2019, we achieved a $13.2 million per week average run rate as compared to $12.6 million per week during the first six months ended October 27, 2018, or an approximate 4.6% increase. This change was driven by the order volume reasons described below and the timing of conversion related to the seasonality in our business.
•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays compared to traditional scoreboards and these systems' ability to provide or enhance academic curriculum offerings for students.
Orders decreased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was due to the variability of timing caused by large projects. 
Orders decreased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.