AJT is a developer of real-time live to air graphics rendering and video server systems for the broadcast TV industry. This acquisition will allow our organization to grow and strengthen our solution offerings to the market. This acquisition was primarily funded with cash on hand.
AJT Systems, Inc. Acquisition
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year. When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday. Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year. In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period. The six months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, contained operating results for 26 weeks.
In September 2017, we sold our non-digital division assets, primarily consisting of inventory, non-digital manufacturing equipment, patented and unpatented technology and know-how, customer lists, and backlog, net of warranty obligations and accounts payable with a net book value of $517. We recorded a gain of $1,267 on the disposal, which is included in cost of sales in the International business unit during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. No gain was recorded in the three or six months ended October 27, 2018. 
We have numerous customers worldwide for sales of our products and services, and no customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales; therefore, we are not economically dependent on a limited number of customers for the sale of our products and services. 
During the six months ended October 27, 2018, we recognized revenue of $30,667 related to our contract liabilities as of April 28, 2018.
The time between contract order and project completion is typically less than 12 months but may extend longer depending on the amount of custom work and customers’ delivery needs.
We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pre-tax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period. Due to various factors and operating in multiple state and foreign jurisdictions, our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation. We recorded an effective tax rate expense of 5.8 percent and 0.0 percent for the three and six months ended October 27, 2018, respectively, and an effective tax rate expense of 24.6 percent and 27.5 percent for the three and six months ended October 28, 2017, respectively. The decreases in the effective tax rates, as compared to the same prior year period, are due to tax credits proportionate to pre-tax book income, and a decrease in the federal statutory tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent pursuant to the Tax Act.
See "Note 5. Segment Reporting" for a disaggregation of revenue by geography.Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to an increase in the allocation of shared resources to this market's selling efforts. Selling expense in our International business unit increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to increased personnel related expenses.
Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the six months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a change in the allocation of resources to this market's selling efforts. Selling expense in our International business unit increased in the six months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to third-party commissions and increased personnel related expenses.
in the first six months of fiscal 2018. During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we had a net cash outflow of $2.3 million for the acquisition of assets of AJT Systems, Inc. 
General and administrative expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a decrease in professional fees. 
General and administrative expenses in the six months ended October 27, 2018 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a decrease in professional fees.
Orders for the three months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing and continued demand for intelligent transportation systems. 
Orders decreased for the three months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
Orders increased for the six months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to variability caused by large order timing and continued demand for intelligent transportation systems.
Orders decreased for the six months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.