AJT is a developer of real-time live to air graphics rendering and video server systems for the broadcast TV industry. This acquisition will allow our organization to grow and strengthen our solution offerings to the market. This acquisition was primarily funded with cash on hand and with payments made over a three-year period.
AJT Systems, Inc. Acquisition
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year. When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday. Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year. In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period. The fiscal year ended April 27, 2019 consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal 2020 will be a 53-week year; therefore, the quarter ended August 3, 2019 contains operating results for 14 weeks while the quarter ended July 28, 2018 contains operating results for 13 weeks.
During the three months ended August 3, 2019, we recognized revenue of $31,259 related to our contract liabilities as of April 27, 2019.
We have numerous customers worldwide for sales of our products and services, and no customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales; therefore, we are not economically dependent on a limited number of customers for the sale of our products and services. 
See "Note 5. Segment Reporting" for a disaggregation of revenue by geography.
Daktronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) are the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
Note 7. Business Combinations
In conducting our impairment testing, we compare the fair value of each of our business units to the related carrying value of the allocated assets. We utilize the income approach based on discounted projected cash flows to estimate the fair value of each unit. The projected cash flows use many estimates including market conditions and expected market demand; our ability to grow or maintain market share and gross profit; and our expected expenditures for capital and operating expenses. Assets shared or not directly attributed to a reportable segment's activities are allocated to the reportable segment based on sales and other measures. For orders, during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we achieved a $13.4 million per week average run rate as compared to $12.3 million per week during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, or an approximate 9.1% increase. We had an increase in orders placed during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 related to new releases of our product offerings.
General and administrative expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the additional week of operating results added to the first quarter of fiscal 2020. 
For net sales, during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we achieved a $12.9 million per week average run rate as compared to $11.9 million per week during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, or an approximate 8.6% increase. This change was driven by the order volume reasons described below and the timing of conversion related to the seasonality in our business.
Orders decreased for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to variability in order timing and a decrease in large video projects compared to the same period last year.
The increase in orders for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the timing of projects in the on-premise and OOH niches. 
Orders for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago remained relatively flat. 
All areas of selling expenses were impacted as a result of the first quarter of fiscal 2020 including 14 weeks compared to the more common 13 weeks. The first quarter of fiscal 2019 contained 13 weeks. Selling expense in our Commercial, Live Events, and High School Park and Recreation business units increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to personnel related expenses. Selling expense in our International business unit decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to a decrease in third-party commissions. Selling expense in our Transportation business unit for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 remained relatively flat compared to the same quarter a year ago. 
•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays compared to traditional scoreboards and these systems' ability to provide or enhance academic curriculum offerings for students.
technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points. We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings. Through our design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays. 
All areas of operating expenses were impacted as a result of the first quarter of fiscal 2020 including 14 weeks compared to the more common 13 weeks. The first quarter of fiscal 2019 contained 13 weeks.