Noncontrolling interest amounts of $3.8 million and $3.5 million, net of tax, for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $11.7 million and $7.1 million, net of tax, for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the capital lease test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company is currently planning on electing the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance.
The amount that would have been reclassified from lease receivables to loan receivables in 2017, under the application of this new guidance, would have been approximately $450 million.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets.
In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million.
Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced by $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million.As a result, the company aligned its presentation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings to conform to the FASB presentation of these costs in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
In the second quarter of 2018, the company reported $20.0 billion in revenue, $2.4 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.8 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.61 as reported and $3.08 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company also generated $2.3 billion in cash from operations and $1.9 billion in free cash flow in the second quarter of 2018 and delivered shareholder returns of $2.4 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
Strategic imperatives revenue of $10.1 billion increased 15 percent as reported and 13 percent adjusted for currency in the second quarter, led by cloud and security.
Cloud revenue of $4.7 billion increased 20 percent (18 percent adjusted for currency) driven by as-a-Service revenue which grew 26 percent as reported and 24 percent adjusted for currency.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $11.1 billion in the second quarter of 2018 compared to $8.8 billion in the second quarter of 2017.
Security grew 81 percent as reported (79 percent adjusted for currency) driven by strong demand for the pervasive encryption of IBM Z and growth in integrated software and services.
The year-to-year decrease was due to lower spending (5 points) as the company continues to realize acquisition synergies and drives operational efficiencies by streamlining its management system, scaling agile and implementing new ways of working.