In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the capital lease test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company is currently planning on electing the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets.
In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million.
Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million.
Refer to note 3, “Revenue Recognition,” for additional information, including further discussion on the impact of adoption and changes in accounting policies relating to revenue recognition.
The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance which requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets, other than inventory, at the time of transfer.As a result, the company aligned its presentation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings to conform to the FASB presentation of these costs in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
In the first quarter of 2018, the company reported $19.1 billion in revenue, $1.7 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.3 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.81 as reported and $2.45 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company also generated $4.6 billion in cash from operations and $1.3 billion in free cash flow in the first quarter of 2018 and delivered shareholder returns of $2.2 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
Strategic imperatives revenue of $9.0 billion increased 15 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency in the first quarter, with double-digit growth in cloud, security and mobile, as the company continues to build new platforms and solutions and embeds cloud and AI capabilities across the business.
Strategic imperatives revenue over the last 12 months was $37.7 billion, an increase of 12 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency, representing 47 percent of the company’s total revenue.
Total Cloud revenue in the first quarter of 2018 of $4.2 billion increased 20 percent as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency, with as-a-Service revenue up 25 percent as reported and 20 percent adjusted for currency.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $10.7 billion in the first quarter of 2018 compared to $8.6 billion in the first quarter of 2017.