Noncontrolling interest amounts of $7.1 million and $6.2 million, net of tax, for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $19.0 million and $17.9 million, net of tax, for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The revenue amounts reclassified were $0.5 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.6 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2018, nine months ended September 30, 2019 and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The guidance also changes the requirements for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts and requires additional disclosures for these reporting units.
In June 2016, with amendments in 2018 and 2019, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance also made some changes to lessor accounting, including elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs (IDCs) and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company made a policy election to not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
As a lessee, at adoption, the company recognized operating and financing ROU assets of $4.8 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, and operating and financing lease liabilities of $5.1 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively.
In August 2018, the FASB issued guidance on a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in cloud-computing arrangements that are hosted by a vendor.Effective with the first quarter of 2019, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
The company’s reportable segment financial results reflect pre-tax operating earnings from continuing operations, consistent with the company’s management and measurement system.
Total cloud revenue of $5.0 billion in the third quarter of 2019 grew 11 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency.
Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) increased 15.9 percent year to year, driven primarily by the higher spending described above.
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2019 was (9.9) percent, a decrease of 20.1 points compared to the third quarter of 2018.
The year-to-year decrease was primarily driven by a benefit from the realization of a tax only capital loss in a subsidiary (10.7 points), an increase in tax benefits attributable to audit activity (4.3 points), as well as a benefit due to the mix of geographic income year to year (5.0 points), primarily driven by Red Hat.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.4 billion decreased 33.4 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 5.9 points to 13.3 percent.