Interim results are not necessarily indicative of financial results for a full year. The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the company’s 2017 Annual Report. 
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model. The guidance requires the consideration of all available relevant information when estimating expected credit losses, including past events, current conditions and forecasts and their implications for expected credit losses. The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with a one year early adoption permitted. The company has established an implementation team and is evaluating the impact of the new guidance. 
The FASB issued guidance in February 2016, with amendments in 2018, which changes the accounting for leases. The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the capital lease test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance. The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. There are certain practical expedients that can be elected which the company is currently evaluating for application. The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 and early adoption is permitted. The company will adopt the guidance as of the effective date. 
A cross-functional implementation team has been established which is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process and policy change requirements. The company has made progress in gathering the necessary data elements for the lease population and a system provider has been selected, with system configuration and implementation underway. The company is currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The company is currently planning on electing the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance. 
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the application of current hedge accounting in certain areas, better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements and make targeted improvements to presentation and disclosure requirements. The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted. The company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2018, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. 
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was not permitted except for limited provisions. The company adopted the guidance on the effective date. Certain equity investments are now measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. The amendment also simplified the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value. The guidance did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. 
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016. Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance also requires specific disclosures relating to revenue recognition. The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets. In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million. Deferred income of $29 million was recorded for certain software licenses that will be recognized over time versus at a point in time under previous guidance. Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million. The guidance did not have a material impact in the company’s consolidated financial results. The company expects revenue recognition for its broad portfolio of hardware, software, and services offerings to remain largely unchanged. Refer to note 3, “Revenue Recognition,” for additional information, including further discussion on the impact of adoption and changes in accounting policies relating to revenue recognition. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance which clarifies the definition of a business. The guidance provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities acquired or sold is a business. The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was permitted. The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. 
In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance which requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets, other than inventory, at the time of transfer. Assets within the scope of the guidance include intellectual property and property, plant and equipment. The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was permitted. The company adopted the guidance on January 1, 2017 using the required modified retrospective method. At adoption, $95 million and $47 million were reclassified from investments and sundry assets and prepaid expenses and other current assets, respectively into retained earnings. Additionally, net deferred taxes of $244 million were established in deferred taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $102 million. In January 2017, the company had one transaction that generated a $582 million benefit to income tax expense, income from continuing operations and net income and a benefit to both basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.62 per share for the year ended December 31, 2017. The benefit to basic and diluted earnings per share for the period ending March 31, 2017 was $0.62 and $0.61, respectively, with no transactions impacting the consolidated financial results for the period ending March 31, 2018. The ongoing impact of this guidance will be dependent on any transaction that is within its scope. 
The company accounts for a contract with a client when it has written approval, the contract is committed, the rights of the parties, including payment terms, are identified, the contract has commercial substance and consideration is probable of collection. 
Revenue is recognized when, or as, control of a promised product or service transfers to a client, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring those products or services. If the consideration promised in a contract includes a variable amount, the company estimates the amount to which it expects to be entitled using either the expected value or most likely amount method. The company’s contracts may include terms that could cause variability in the transaction price, including, for example, rebates, volume discounts, service-level penalties, and performance bonuses or other forms of contingent revenue. 
The company may include subcontractor services or third-party vendor equipment or software in certain integrated services arrangements. In these types of arrangements, revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client and the vendor, and gross when the company is the principal for the transaction. To determine whether the company is an agent or principal, the company considers whether it obtains control of the products or services before they are transferred to the customer. In making this evaluation, several factors are considered, most notably whether the company has primary responsibility for fulfillment to the client, as well as inventory risk and pricing discretion. 
The company recognizes revenue on sales to solution providers, resellers and distributors (herein referred to as “resellers”) when the reseller has economic substance apart from the company and the reseller is considered the principal for the transaction with the end-user client. 
In addition to the aforementioned general policies, the following are the specific revenue recognition policies for arrangements with multiple performance obligations and for each major category of revenue. 
· The company’s promise to transfer the product or service to the client is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract (that is, the product or service is distinct within the context of the contract). 
To the extent the company grants the customer the option to acquire additional products or services in one of these arrangements, the company accounts for the option as a distinct performance obligation in the contract only if the option provides a material right to the customer that it would not receive without entering into the contract (e.g., a discount incremental to the range of discounts typically given for the product or service), in which case the client in effect pays in advance for the option to purchase future products or services. The company recognizes revenue when those future products or services are transferred or when the option expires. 
The company’s primary services offerings include infrastructure services, including outsourcing, and other managed services; application management services; global process services (GPS); maintenance and support; and consulting, including the design and development of complex IT systems to a client’s specifications (e.g., design and build). Many of these services can be delivered entirely or partially through cloud or as-a-Service delivery models. The company’s services are provided on a time-and-material basis, as a fixed-price contract or as a fixed-price per measure of output contract and the contract terms range from less than one year to over 10 years. 
In services arrangements, the company typically satisfies the performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time. In design and build arrangements, the performance obligation is satisfied over time either because the client controls the asset as it is created (e.g., when the asset is built at the customer site) or because the company’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the company has an enforceable right to payment plus a reasonable profit for performance completed to date. In most other services arrangements, the performance obligation is satisfied over time because the client simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the company performs the services. 
In outsourcing, other managed services, application management, GPS and other cloud-based services arrangements, the company determines whether the services performed during the initial phases of the arrangement, such as setup activities, are distinct. In most cases, the arrangement is a single performance obligation comprised of a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer (i.e., distinct days of service). The company applies a measure of progress (typically time-based) to any fixed consideration and allocates variable consideration to the distinct periods of service based on usage. As a result, revenue is generally recognized over the period the services are provided on a usage basis. This results in revenue recognition that corresponds with the value to the client of the services transferred to date relative to the remaining services promised. 
Revenue related to maintenance and support services and extended warranty is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of performance because the company is standing ready to provide services. 
In fixed-price design and build contracts, revenue is recognized based on progress towards completion of the performance obligation using a cost-to-cost measure of progress (i.e., percentage-of-completion (POC) method of accounting). Revenue is recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract. Due to the nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of cost at completion is complex, subject to many variables and requires significant judgment. Key factors reviewed by the company to estimate costs to complete each contract are future labor and product costs and expected productivity efficiencies. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. These revisions may result in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs, and such revisions are reflected in revenue on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the circumstances that gave rise to the revision become known 
by the company. Refer to page 19 for the amount of revenue recognized in the reporting period on a cumulative catch-up basis (i.e., from performance obligations satisfied, or partially satisfied, in previous periods). 
In some services contracts, the company bills the client prior to recognizing revenue from performing the services. In other services contracts, the company performs the services prior to billing the client. When the company performs services prior to billing the client in design and build contracts, the right to consideration is typically subject to milestone completion or client acceptance and the unbilled accounts receivable is classified as a contract asset. Refer to page 85 of the company’s 2017 Annual Report for the amount of deferred income and unbilled accounts receivable at December 31, 2017 and 2016. 
The company’s hardware offerings include the sale or lease of system servers and storage solutions. These products can also be delivered through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models, such as Storage-as-a-Service. The company also offers installation services for its more complex hardware products. Hardware offerings are often sold with distinct maintenance services, described under the Services section above. 
Revenue from hardware sales is recognized when control has transferred to the customer which typically occurs when the hardware has been shipped to the client, risk of loss has transferred to the client and the company has a present right to payment for the hardware. In limited circumstances when a hardware sale includes client acceptance provisions, revenue is recognized either when client acceptance has been obtained, client acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the company has objective evidence that the criteria specified in the client acceptance provisions have been satisfied. Revenue from hardware sales-type leases is recognized at the beginning of the lease term. Revenue from rentals and operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the rental or lease. 
Revenue from as-a-Service arrangements is recognized either on a straight-line basis or on a usage basis as described in the Services section above. Installation services are accounted for as distinct performance obligations with revenue recognized as the services are performed. Any cost of standard warranties is accrued when the corresponding revenue is recognized. Shipping and handling activities that occur after the client has obtained control of a product are accounted for as an activity to fulfill the promise to transfer the product rather than as an additional promised service and, therefore, no revenue is deferred and recognized over the shipping period. 
The company’s software offerings include solutions software, which contains many of the company’s strategic areas including analytics, data and security; transaction processing software, which primarily runs mission-critical systems for clients; integration software, which helps clients to create, connect and optimize their applications data and infrastructure; and, operating systems software, which provides operating systems for IBM Z and Power Systems hardware. Many of these offerings can be delivered entirely or partially through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models, while others are delivered as on-premise software licenses. 
Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the client, if the software license is distinct from the post-contract support offered by the company. In limited circumstances, when the software requires continuous updates to provide the intended functionality, the software license and post-contract support are not distinct and revenue for the single performance obligation is recognized over time as the post-contract support is provided. This is only applicable to certain security software perpetual licenses offered by the company. Prior to the adoption of the new revenue standard, the company recognized revenue for these software licenses at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement. This change did not have a material impact on the company’s financial statements. 
Revenue from post-contract support is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis because the company is providing a service of standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed, and is providing unspecified software upgrades on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term. 
Revenue from software hosting or Software-as-a-Service arrangements is recognized either on a straight-line basis or on a usage basis as described in the Services section above. In software hosting arrangements, the rights provided to the client (e.g., ownership of a license, contract termination provisions and the feasibility of the client to operate the software) are considered in determining whether the arrangement includes a license. In arrangements that include a software license, the associated revenue is recognized in accordance with the software license recognition policy above rather than over time as a service. 
Revenue from term license software is recognized at a point in time for the committed term of the contract (which is typically one month due to client termination rights). However, if the amount of consideration to be paid in exchange for the license depends on client usage, revenue is recognized when the usage occurs. 
Financing income attributable to sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans is recognized on the accrual basis using the effective interest method. Operating lease income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
The company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price basis. The standalone selling price (SSP) is the price at which the company would sell a promised product or service separately to a client. In most cases, the company is able to establish SSP based on the observable prices of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances to similar clients. The company typically establishes a standalone selling price range for its products and services which are reassessed on a periodic basis or when facts and circumstances change. 
In situations in which an outsourcing contract is terminated, the terms of the contract may require the client to reimburse the company for the recovery of unbilled accounts receivable, unamortized deferred costs incurred to purchase specific assets utilized in the delivery of services and to pay any additional costs incurred by the company to transition the services. 
The company offers warranties for its hardware products that generally range up to three years, with the majority being either one or three years. Estimated costs for standard warranty terms are recognized when revenue is recorded for the related product. The company estimates its warranty costs standard to the product based on historical warranty claim experience and estimates of future spending, and applies this estimate to the revenue stream for products under warranty. Estimated future costs for warranties applicable to revenue recognized in the current period are charged to cost of sales. The warranty liability is reviewed quarterly to verify that it properly reflects the remaining obligation based on the anticipated expenditures over the balance of the obligation period. Adjustments are made when actual warranty claim experience differs from estimates. Costs from fixed-price support or maintenance contracts, including extended warranty contracts, are recognized as incurred. 
The company classifies the right to consideration in exchange for products or services transferred to a client as either a receivable or a contract asset. A receivable is a right to consideration that is unconditional as compared to a contract asset which is a right to consideration that is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time. The majority of the company’s contract assets represent unbilled amounts related to design and build services contracts when the cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition is utilized, revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the client, and the right to consideration is subject to milestone completion or client acceptance. Contract assets are generally classified as current and are recorded on a net basis with deferred income (i.e., contract liabilities) at the contract level. At January 1, 2018 and March 31, 2018 contract assets of $557 million and $582 million, respectively, are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. At December 31, 2017, these assets were classified as notes and accounts receivable-trade in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 
An allowance for contract assets, if needed, and uncollectible trade receivables is estimated based on a combination of write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known troubled accounts. 
The remaining performance obligation disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be recognized as of the end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the company expects to recognize these amounts in revenue. It is intended to be a statement of overall work under contract that has not yet been performed and does not include contracts in which the customer is not committed, such as certain as-a-Service, governmental, term software license and services offerings. The customer is not considered committed when they are able to terminate for convenience without payment of a substantive penalty. The disclosure includes estimates of variable consideration, except when the variable consideration is a sales-based or usage-based royalty promised in exchange for a license of intellectual property. Additionally, as a practical expedient, the company does not include contracts that have an original duration of one year or less. Remaining performance obligation estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustment for revenue that has not materialized and adjustments for currency. 
At March 31, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations related to customer contracts that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied was $131 billion. Given the profile of contract terms, approximately 60 percent of this amount is expected to be recognized as revenue over the next two years, approximately 30 percent between three and five years and the balance (mostly Infrastructure Services) thereafter. 
For the three months ending March 31, 2018, revenue was reduced by $22 million for performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, mainly due to changes in estimates on percentage-of-completion based contracts. See pages 14 and 15 for additional information on percentage-of-completion contracts and estimates of costs to complete. 
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at January 1, 2018 was $3.5 billion and primarily relates to services and software. 
On January 1, 2018, in accordance with the transition guidance, $737 million of in-scope sales commissions that were previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized as costs to obtain a contract. 
The amount of total deferred costs amortized during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was $855 million. There were no material impairment losses incurred during the period. Refer to pages 16 and 17 for additional information on deferred costs to fulfill a contract and capitalized costs of obtaining a contract. 
In accordance with the modified retrospective method transition requirements, the company will present the financial statement line items impacted and adjusted to compare to presentation under the prior GAAP for each of the interim and annual periods during the first year of adoption of the new revenue standard. The following tables summarize the impacts as of and for the quarter ended March 31, 2018. The impacts to adjust to prior GAAP are primarily the result of the transition adjustments recorded at adoption. Current period impacts were not material. Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes,” for additional information on the transition adjustments. 
· Level 3—Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. 
The guidance requires the use of observable market data if such data is available without undue cost and effort. 
When available, the company uses unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets to measure the fair value and classifies such items as Level 1. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that use current market-based or independently sourced market parameters such as interest rates and currency rates. Items valued using internally generated models are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver that is significant to the valuation. 
The determination of fair value considers various factors including interest rate yield curves and time value underlying the financial instruments. For derivatives and debt securities, the company uses a discounted cash flow analysis using discount rates commensurate with the duration of the instrument. 
· Counterparty credit risk adjustments are applied to financial instruments, taking into account the actual credit risk of a counterparty as observed in the credit default swap market to determine the true fair value of such an instrument. 
Certain assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis can be subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements. These assets include available-for-sale debt securities that are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. In the event of an other-than-temporary impairment of a debt security, fair value is measured using a model described above. 
Certain non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, land, goodwill and intangible assets are also subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements if they are deemed to be impaired. The impairment models used for nonfinancial assets depend on the type of asset. There were no material impairments of non-financial assets for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 
Accounting guidance permits the measurement of eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards. This election is irrevocable. The company has not applied the fair value option to any eligible assets or liabilities. 
Effective January 1, 2018, the company adopted the new FASB guidance on recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments using the cumulative catch-up transition method. Under the new standard, the company measures equity investments at fair value with changes recognized in net income. Based on the method of adoption, prior year information has not been updated to conform with the new guidance. Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes,” for further information. 
The following tables present the company’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 
There were no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and the year ended December 31, 2017. 
Notes and other accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value. Accounts payable, other accrued expenses and short-term debt (excluding the current portion of long-term debt) are financial liabilities with carrying values that approximate fair value. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, except for short-term debt, which would be classified as Level 2. 
Fair values are based on discounted future cash flows using current interest rates offered for similar loans to clients with similar credit ratings for the same remaining maturities. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value for loans and long-term receivables was immaterial. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. 
Fair value of publicly-traded long-term debt is based on quoted market prices for the identical liability when traded as an asset in an active market. For other long-term debt for which a quoted market price is not available, an expected present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities is used to estimate fair value. The carrying amount of long-term debt was $40,410 million and $39,837 million, and the estimated fair value was $42,334 million and $42,264 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. If measured at fair 
value in the financial statements, long-term debt (including the current portion) would be classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. 
As a result of the use of derivative instruments, the company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, the company has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based upon their overall credit profile. The company’s established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk on principal transactions include reviewing and establishing limits for credit exposure and continually assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties. The right of set-off that exists under certain of these arrangements enables the legal entities of the company subject to the arrangement to net amounts due to and from the counterparty reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default. 
The company is also a party to collateral security arrangements with most of its major derivative counterparties. These arrangements require the company to hold or post collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury securities) when the derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds. Posting thresholds can be fixed or can vary based on credit default swap pricing or credit ratings received from the major credit agencies. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments under these collateralized arrangements that were in a liability position at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $42 million and $126 million, respectively, for which no collateral was posted at either date. Full collateralization of these agreements would be required in the event that the company’s credit rating falls below investment grade or if its credit default swap spread exceeds 250 basis points, as applicable, pursuant to the terms of the collateral security arrangements. The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in asset positions at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $940 million and $942 million, respectively. This amount represents the maximum exposure to loss at the reporting date if the counterparties failed to perform as contracted. This exposure was reduced by $272 million and $255 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, of liabilities included in master netting arrangements with those counterparties. Additionally, at March 31, 
2018 and December 31, 2017, this exposure was reduced by $162 million and $114 million of cash collateral, respectively. There were no non-cash collateral balances in U.S. Treasury securities at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net exposure related to derivative assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $506 million and $572 million, respectively. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net position related to derivative liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $80 million and $160 million, respectively. 
In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the company does not offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments. No amount was recognized in other receivables at March 31, 2018 or December 31, 2017 for the right to reclaim cash collateral. The amount recognized in accounts payable for the obligation to return cash collateral was $162 million and $114 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The company restricts the use of cash collateral received to rehypothecation, and therefore reports it in restricted cash in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. No amount was rehypothecated at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 
The company may employ derivative instruments to hedge the volatility in stockholders’ equity resulting from changes in currency exchange rates of significant foreign subsidiaries of the company with respect to the U.S. dollar. These instruments, designated as net investment hedges, expose the company to liquidity risk as the derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity which is not offset by a cash flow from the translation of the underlying hedged equity. The company monitors this cash loss potential on an ongoing basis and may discontinue some of these hedging relationships by de-designating or terminating the derivative instrument in order to manage the liquidity risk. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company may utilize derivatives to offset the changes in the fair value of the de-designated instruments from the date of de-designation until maturity. 
In its hedging programs, the company uses forward contracts, futures contracts, interest-rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, and options depending upon the underlying exposure. The company is not a party to leveraged derivative instruments. 
A brief description of the major hedging programs, categorized by underlying risk, follows. 
The company is exposed to interest rate volatility on future debt issuances. To manage this risk, the company may use forward starting interest-rate swaps to lock in the rate on the interest payments related to the forecasted debt issuance. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 
A large portion of the company’s foreign currency denominated debt portfolio is designated as a hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the functional currency of major foreign subsidiaries with respect to the U.S. dollar. The company also uses cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts for this risk management purpose. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges was $6.7 billion and $7.0 billion, 
respectively. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments was approximately 0.2 years at both periods. 
The company’s operations generate significant nonfunctional currency, third-party vendor payments and intercompany payments for royalties and goods and services among the company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the company. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its currency risk. These forward contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is four years. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost transactions was $8.2 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was 0.7 years at both periods. 
The company is exposed to exchange rate volatility on foreign currency denominated debt. To manage this risk, the company employs cross-currency swaps to convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is approximately ten years. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of cross-currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated debt was $6.5 billion at both periods. 
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, in connection with cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated borrowings, the company recorded net gains of $122 million and net gains of $42 million (before taxes), respectively, in AOCI. The company estimates that $194 million (before taxes) of deferred net gains on derivatives in AOCI at March 31, 2018, will be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying exposure. 
The company uses its Global Treasury Centers to manage the cash of its subsidiaries. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company’s nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less than one year. The changes in the fair values of these contracts and of the underlying hedged exposures are generally offsetting and are recorded in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of foreign currency exposure was $8.9 billion and $11.5 billion, respectively. 
The following tables provide a quantitative summary of the derivative and non-derivative instrument-related risk management activity at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, as well as for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 
The company utilizes certain of its financing receivables as collateral for non-recourse borrowings. Financing receivables pledged as collateral for borrowings were $687 million and $773 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. 
The company did not have any financing receivables held for sale as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 
The average recorded investment of impaired leases and loans for Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific was $130 million, $55 million and $81 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and $173 million, $23 million and $161 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Both interest income recognized and interest income recognized on a cash basis on impaired leases and loans were immaterial for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. 
Write-offs of lease receivables and loan receivables were $55 million and $82 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017. Provisions for credit losses recorded for lease receivables and loan receivables were $9 million and $7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017. 
The company considers a client’s financing receivable balance past due when any installment is aged over 90 days. The following table summarizes information about the recorded investment in leases and loans financing receivables, including recorded investments aged over 90 days and still accruing, billed invoices aged over 90 days and recorded investment not accruing. 
The company’s credit quality indicators, which are based on rating agency data, publicly available information and information provided by customers, are reviewed periodically based on the relative level of risk. The resulting indicators are a numerical rating system that maps to Moody’s Investors Service credit ratings as shown below. The company uses information provided by Moody’s, where available, as one of many inputs in its determination of customer credit ratings. 
The following tables present the recorded investment net of allowance for credit losses for each class of receivables, by credit quality indicator, at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Receivables with a credit quality indicator ranging from Aaa to Baa3 are considered investment grade. All others are considered non-investment grade. The credit quality indicators do not reflect mitigation actions that the company takes to transfer credit risk to third parties. 
The company did not have any significant troubled debt restructurings during the three months ended March 31, 2018 or for the year ended December 31, 2017. 
In 2018, the company expects to contribute approximately $400 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit and multi-employer plans, the largest of which will be contributed to the defined benefit pension plans in Japan, Spain and the UK. This amount generally represents the legally mandated minimum contribution. Total contributions to the non-U.S. plans in the first three months of 2018 were $191 million, of which $44 million was in cash and $147 million in U.S. Treasury securities. Total net contributions to the non-U.S. plans in the first three months of 2017 were $182 million, of which $40 million was in cash and $142 million in U.S. Treasury securities. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 
The company contributed $120 million in U.S. Treasury securities to the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan during the three months ended March 31, 2018, and $135 million in U.S. Treasury securities during the three months ended March 31, 2017. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 
The net carrying amount of intangible assets decreased $221 million during the first quarter of 2018, primarily due to intangible asset amortization, partially offset by additions resulting from capitalized software. The aggregate intangible amortization expense was $340 million and $390 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. In addition, in the first three months of 2018, the company retired $231 million of fully amortized intangible assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by this amount. 
There were no goodwill impairment losses recorded during the first three months of 2018 or the full year of 2017 and the company has no accumulated impairment losses. 
Purchase price adjustments recorded in the first three months of 2018 and full year 2017 were related to acquisitions that were completed on or prior to December 31, 2017 or September 30, 2017, respectively, and were still subject to the measurement period that ends at the earlier of 12 months from the acquisition date or when information becomes available. Net purchase price adjustments recorded during the first three months of 2018 were not material. Net purchase price adjustments of $38 million were recorded during 2017, with the primary drivers being deferred tax assets, other taxes payable and other current liabilities associated with the Truven Health Analytics, Inc. and The Weather Company acquisitions. 
The weighted-average interest rate for commercial paper at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was 1.8 percent and 1.5 percent, respectively. The weighted-average interest rate for short-term loans was 7.6 percent and 8.8 percent at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. 
ability to merge or consolidate unless certain conditions are met. The credit facilities also include a covenant on the company’s consolidated net interest expense ratio, which cannot be less than 2.20 to 1.0, as well as a cross default provision with respect to other defaulted indebtedness of at least $500 million. 
The company is in compliance with all of its significant debt covenants and provides periodic certifications to its lenders. The failure to comply with its debt covenants could constitute an event of default with respect to the debt to which such provisions apply. If certain events of default were to occur, the principal and interest on the debt to which such event of default applied would become immediately due and payable. 
The following is a summary of the more significant legal matters involving the company. 
On March 9, 2017, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania’s Department of Labor and Industry sued IBM in Pennsylvania state court regarding a 2006 contract for the development of a custom software system to manage the Commonwealth’s unemployment insurance benefits programs. The matter is pending in a Pennsylvania court. 
On October 29, 2013, Bridgestone Americas, Inc. (Bridgestone) sued IBM regarding a 2009 contract for the implementation of an SAP-based, enterprise-wide order management system. IBM counterclaimed against Bridgestone and its parent, Bridgestone Corp. The case is pending in the Middle District of Tennessee. 
Following the 2017 final judgment of the Appeal Court in London holding that IBM UK acted lawfully in 2010 in closing its UK defined benefit plans to future accruals for most participants and in implementing a new retirement policy, the Employment Tribunal in Southampton UK is expected to address approximately 290 individual actions alleging constructive dismissal and age discrimination brought against IBM UK in 2010 by employees who left the company at that time. The individual actions were previously stayed. 
In May 2015, a putative class action was commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York related to the company’s October 2014 announcement that it was divesting its global commercial semiconductor technology business, alleging violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”). Management’s Retirement Plans Committee and three current or former IBM executives are named as defendants. On September 29, 2017, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the first amended complaint. Plaintiffs appealed to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals and the matter remains pending. 
The company is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. federal or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as “Superfund,” or laws similar to CERCLA. Such statutes require potentially responsible parties to participate in remediation activities regardless of fault or ownership of sites. The company is also conducting environmental investigations, assessments or remediations at or in the vicinity of several current or former operating sites globally pursuant to permits, administrative orders or agreements with country, state or local environmental agencies, and is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning certain current or former operating sites. 
