item1.txt
Additionally, beginning in the first quarter of 2019, the Company classified the amortization of the deferred value of Maps, Siri® and free iCloud® services, which are bundled in the sales price of iPhone®, Mac®, iPad® and certain other products, in services net sales.
The Company recognizes revenue at the amount to which it expects to be entitled when control of the products or services is transferred to its customers.
Control is generally transferred when the Company has a present right to payment and title and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of products or services are transferred to its customers.
The Company records reductions to products net sales related to future product returns, price protection and other customer incentive programs based on the Company’s expectations and historical experience.
The Company’s process for estimating SSPs without observable prices considers multiple factors that may vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each performance obligation including, where applicable, prices charged by the Company for similar offerings, market trends in the pricing for similar offerings, product-specific business objectives and the estimated cost to provide the performance obligation.
The Company has identified up to three performance obligations regularly included in arrangements involving the sale of iPhone, Mac, iPad and certain other products.
The Company allocates revenue and any related discounts to these performance obligations based on their relative SSPs. Because the Company lacks observable prices for the undelivered performance obligations, the allocation of revenue is based on the Company’s estimated SSPs. Revenue allocated to the delivered hardware and bundled software is recognized when control has transferred to the customer, which generally occurs when the product is shipped.
For the sale of third-party products where the Company obtains control of the product before transferring it to the customer, the Company recognizes revenue based on the gross amount billed to customers.
The Company may sell certain of its marketable debt securities prior to their stated maturities for reasons including, but not limited to, managing liquidity, credit risk, duration and asset allocation.
The Company may use derivatives to partially offset its business exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risk on expected future cash flows, net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries, and certain existing assets and liabilities.
The credit risk amounts represent the Company’s gross exposure to potential accounting loss on derivative instruments that are outstanding or unsettled if all counterparties failed to perform according to the terms of the contract, based on then-current currency or interest rates at each respective date.
To further limit credit risk, the Company generally enters into collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral to be received or posted when the net fair value of certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds.
As of June 29, 2019, the net cash collateral received by the Company related to derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements was $603 million, which was recorded as other current liabilities in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
As of September 29, 2018, the net cash collateral posted by the Company related to derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements was $1.0 billion, which was recorded as other current assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In addition, when possible, the Company attempts to limit credit risk on trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers or by requiring third-party financing, loans or leases to support credit exposure.
The Company has non-trade receivables from certain of its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale of components to these vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company.
The Company’s OCI consists of foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the U.S. dollar as their functional currency, net deferred gains and losses on certain derivative instruments accounted for as cash flow hedges and unrealized gains and losses on marketable debt securities classified as available-for-sale.
If the Company’s supply of components for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, or if an outsourcing partner delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.
Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Company’s requirements.
Certain of these outsourcing partners are single-sourced suppliers of components and manufacturers for many of the Company’s products.
Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners on manufacturing schedules, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if its outsourcing partners were unable to meet their production commitments.
Various civil litigation matters have been filed in state and federal courts in the U.S. and in various international jurisdictions alleging violation of consumer protection laws, fraud, computer intrusion and other causes of action related to the Company’s performance management feature used in its iPhone operating systems, introduced to certain iPhones in iOS updates 10.2.1 and 11.2.
Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one is managed separately to better align with the location of the Company’s customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics of each geographic region.
The Company’s financial condition and operating results depend substantially on the Company’s ability to continually improve its products and services in order to maintain their functional and design advantages.
There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to provide products and services that compete effectively.
The Company’s new products often utilize custom components available from only one source.
Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected for any number of reasons, including if suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Company’s requirements.
If the Company’s supply of components for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, or if an outsourcing partner delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.
The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by outsourcing partners, many of which are located outside of the U.S. Substantially all of the Company’s manufacturing is performed in whole or in part by outsourcing partners located primarily in Asia.
Some third-party content providers and distributors currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license or otherwise distribute their content in the future.
Failure to obtain the right to make third-party digital content available, or to make such content available on commercially reasonable terms, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.
The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardware products depend in part on the availability of third-party software applications and services.
There is no assurance that third-party developers will continue to develop and maintain software applications and services for the Company’s products.
If third-party software applications and services cease to be developed and maintained for the Company’s products, customers may choose not to buy the Company’s products.
The Company believes the availability of third-party software applications and services for its products depends in part on the developers’ perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining and upgrading such software and services for the Company’s products compared to competitors’ platforms, such as Android for smartphones and tablets and Windows for personal computers.
This analysis may be based on factors such as the market position of the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, expected future growth of product sales and the costs of developing such applications and services.
These U.S. and foreign laws and regulations affect the Company’s activities in areas including, but not limited to, labor, advertising, digital content, availability of third-party software applications and services, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, telecommunications, mobile communications and media, television and film, intellectual property ownership and infringement, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy and data localization requirements, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety.
Any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation, could individually or in the aggregate make the Company’s products and services less attractive to the Company’s customers, delay the introduction of new products and services in one or more regions, or cause the Company to change or limit its business practices.
Such failures or disruptions could adversely impact the Company’s business by, among other things, preventing access to the Company’s online services, interfering with customer transactions or impeding the manufacturing and shipping of the Company’s products.
But these measures cannot provide absolute security, and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.
Although the Company takes steps to secure confidential information that is provided to third parties, such measures are not always effective and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.
Such an incident could, among other things, impair the Company’s ability to attract and retain customers for its products and services, impact the Company’s stock price, materially damage supplier relationships, and expose the Company to litigation or government investigations, which could result in penalties, fines or judgments against the Company.
The Company could also experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs or lose the ability to process payment cards if it fails to follow payment card industry data security standards, which would materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.
Political events, international trade disputes, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions could harm or disrupt international commerce and the global economy, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its customers, suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners.
Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could be adversely affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in the operations of the Company’s suppliers and contract manufacturers.


item2.txt
Beginning in the first quarter of 2019, the Company classified the amortization of the deferred value of Maps, Siri and free iCloud services, which are bundled in the sales price of iPhone, Mac, iPad and certain other products, in services net sales.
Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales increased during the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 due primarily to higher net sales of AirPods and Apple Watch.
Europe net sales decreased during the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 due primarily to lower iPhone net sales, partially offset by higher Wearables, Home and Accessories and Services net sales.
Japan net sales increased during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the same quarter in 2018 due primarily to higher Services and Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales, partially offset by lower iPhone net sales.
Rest of Asia Pacific net sales increased during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the same quarter in 2018 due primarily to higher Wearables, Home and Accessories, iPad and Services net sales.
Year-over-year Rest of Asia Pacific net sales during the first nine months of 2019 increased due primarily to higher Wearables, Home and Accessories, iPad and Services net sales, partially offset by lower iPhone net sales.
Products gross margin decreased during the first nine months of 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 due primarily to lower iPhone unit sales and the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar.
Services gross margin increased during the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 due primarily to higher services net sales.
Year-over-year services gross margin percentage increased during the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 due primarily to leverage of the Company’s services fixed cost structure from higher services net sales and a different services mix.


part2.txt
Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, slower growth or recession, new or increased tariffs, changes to fiscal and monetary policy, tighter credit, higher interest rates, high unemployment and currency fluctuations could materially adversely affect demand for the Company’s products and services.
The Company’s financial condition and operating results depend substantially on the Company’s ability to continually improve its products and services in order to maintain their functional and design advantages.
Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected for any number of reasons, including if suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Company’s requirements.
If the Company’s supply of components for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, or if an outsourcing partner delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.
The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by outsourcing partners, many of which are located outside of the U.S. Substantially all of the Company’s manufacturing is performed in whole or in part by outsourcing partners located primarily in Asia.
The Company’s products and services may be affected from time to time by design and manufacturing defects that could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and result in harm to the Company’s reputation.
Failure to obtain the right to make third-party digital content available, or to make such content available on commercially reasonable terms, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.
The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardware products depend in part on the availability of third-party software applications and services.
There is no assurance that third-party developers will continue to develop and maintain software applications and services for the Company’s products.
The Company is subject to laws and regulations worldwide, changes to which could increase the Company’s costs and individually or in the aggregate adversely affect the Company’s business.
These U.S. and foreign laws and regulations affect the Company’s activities in areas including, but not limited to, labor, advertising, digital content, availability of third-party software applications and services, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, telecommunications, mobile communications and media, television and film, intellectual property ownership and infringement, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy and data localization requirements, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety.
Any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation, could individually or in the aggregate make the Company’s products and services less attractive to the Company’s customers, delay the introduction of new products and services in one or more regions, or cause the Company to change or limit its business practices.
The Company also could be significantly affected by other risks associated with international activities including, but not limited to, economic and labor conditions, increased duties, taxes and other costs, political instability and international trade disputes.
Gross margins on the Company’s products in foreign countries, and on products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could be materially adversely affected by international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties.
Such failures or disruptions could adversely impact the Company’s business by, among other things, preventing access to the Company’s online services, interfering with customer transactions or impeding the manufacturing and shipping of the Company’s products.
These events could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.
But these measures cannot provide absolute security, and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.
Although the Company takes steps to secure confidential information that is provided to third parties, such measures are not always effective and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.
The Company could also experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs or lose the ability to process payment cards if it fails to follow payment card industry data security standards, which would materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.
Political events, international trade disputes, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions could harm or disrupt international commerce and the global economy, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its customers, suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners.
Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could be adversely affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in the operations of the Company’s suppliers and contract manufacturers.
The Company could also be subject to unexpected developments, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’s products or services, issues with new product or service introductions, information technology system failures or network disruptions, or failure of one of the Company’s logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners.
Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely affects the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s foreign currency–denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company’s products.
Therefore, although the Company has not realized any significant losses on its cash, cash equivalents, and marketable and non-marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in significant losses and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.


