item1.txt
In May 2014, the FASB released ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The FASB issued subsequent amendments to the initial guidance in August 2015, March 2016, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016 within ASU 2015–14, ASU 2016–08, ASU 2016–10, ASU 2016–12 and ASU 2016–20, respectively; all of which in combination with ASU 2014-09 were codified as Accounting Standard Codification Topic 606 (“ASC 606”). The core principle of the standard is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. The Company adopted ASC 606 on the first day of the current fiscal year, June 25, 2018, under the modified retrospective approach, applying the amendments to prospective reporting periods. Results for reporting periods beginning on or after June 25, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under ASC 605. In conjunction with the adoption of ASC 606, the Company’s revenue recognition policy has been amended, refer to Note 3 - Revenue for a description of the amendments.
Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $139.4 million, net of tax adjustment of $21.0 million, which increased the June 25, 2018 opening retained earnings balance on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily as a result of changes in the timing of recognition of system sales. Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenue from sales of systems when the Company determines that control has passed to the customer which is generally (1) for products that have been demonstrated to meet product specifications prior to shipment upon shipment or delivery; (2) for products that have not been demonstrated to meet product specifications prior to shipment, revenue is recognized upon completion of installation and receipt of customer acceptance; (3) for transactions where legal title does not pass upon shipment or delivery and the Company does not have a right to payment, revenue is recognized when legal title passes to the customer and the Company has a right to payment, which is generally at customer acceptance.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-01, “Financial Instruments – Overall – Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” The FASB issued a subsequent amendment to the initial guidance in February 2018 within ASU 2018-03. These amendments change the accounting for and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee. The amendments provide clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes. The Company’s adoption of this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In October 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-16, “Income Tax – Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.” This standard update improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using a modified-retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings. The Company’s adoption of this standard resulted in a $0.4 million decrease to retained earnings and a corresponding $0.4 million increase to other assets on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) adopted amendments to eliminate, integrate, update or modify certain of its disclosure requirements. The amendments are part of the SEC’s efforts to improve disclosure effectiveness and were focused on eliminating disclosure requirements that have become redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated, or superseded. The Company adopted these amendments in the first quarter of fiscal Year 2019 and as a result the Company has included a Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity to this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The Company expects that the Company’s 2019 annual report on Form 10-K will omit a number of disclosures previously required in Part II. Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, as well as other minor changes.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-18, "Collaborative Arrangements (Topic 808).” The amendment clarifies that certain transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement should be accounted for under Topic 606 when the counterparty is a customer for a good or service that is a distinct unit of account. The amendment also precludes entities from presenting consideration from transactions with a collaborator that is not a customer together with revenue recognized from contracts with customers. The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. The standard should be applied retrospectively to the period when the Company initially adopted ASC 606. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adoptions on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Lam Research Corporation 2015 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2015 Plan”), provides for the grant of non-qualified equity-based awards of the Company’s Common Stock to eligible employees and non-employee directors, including stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and market-based performance RSUs (“market-based PRSUs”). An option is a right to purchase Common Stock at a set price. An RSU award is an agreement to issue a set number of shares of Common Stock at the time of vesting. The Company’s market-based PRSUs contain both a market condition and a service condition. The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years. The Company also has an employee stock purchase plan that allows employees to purchase its Common Stock at a discount through payroll deductions.
During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, the Company issued both service-based RSUs and market-based performance RSUs (“PRSUs”). The fair value of the Company’s service-based RSUs was calculated based on the fair market value of the Company’s stock at the grant date, discounted for dividends. The fair value of the Company’s market-based PRSUs was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model at the date of the grant. Market-based PRSUs generally vest three years from the grant date if certain performance criteria are achieved and require continued employment. Based upon the terms of such awards, the number of shares that can be earned over the performance periods is based on the Company’s Common Stock price performance compared to the market price performance of the Philadelphia Semiconductor Sector Index (“SOX”), ranging from 0% to 150% of target. The stock price performance or market price performance is measured using the closing price for the 50-trading days prior to the dates the performance period begins and ends. The target number of shares represented by the market-based PRSUs is increased by 2% of target for each 1% that Common Stock price performance exceeds the market price performance of the SOX index. The result of the vesting formula is rounded down to the nearest whole number.
Beginning in fiscal year 2019, the Company is subject to the impact of the “Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income” (“GILTI”) provision of U.S. tax reform. The GILTI provision imposes taxes on foreign earnings in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets. The Company has calculated the impact of the GILTI provision on current year earnings and has included the impact in the effective tax rate. In addition, the Company evaluated whether deferred taxes should be recorded in relation to the GILTI provision or if the tax should be recorded in the period in which it occurs. Based on current interpretation, the Company could choose either method as an accounting policy election. The Company made an accounting policy election in the September 2018 quarter to record deferred taxes in relation to the GILTI provision, and recorded a provisional tax benefit of $48.0 million 
in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the three months ended September 23, 2018, under SAB 118. The Company finalized the computation of the accounting policy election during the December 2018 quarter. The final adjustment resulted in a tax expense of $0.4 million, which was recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the three months ended December 23, 2018. The final tax benefit of the election is $47.6 million.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
The Company accounts for its investment portfolio at fair value. Realized gains (losses) for investment sales are specifically identified. Management assesses the fair value of investments in debt securities that are not actively traded through consideration of interest rates and their impact on the present value of the cash flows to be received from the investments. The Company also considers whether changes in the credit ratings of the issuer could impact the assessment of fair value. Additionally, the Company also considers factors such as the Company’s intent to sell the security and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis.
The Company carries derivative financial instruments (“derivatives”) on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values. The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options with financial institutions with the primary objective of reducing volatility of earnings and cash flows related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swap arrangements to manage interest rate risk. The counterparties to these derivatives are large global financial institutions that the Company believes are creditworthy, and therefore, it does not consider the risk of counterparty nonperformance to be material.
In addition, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in certain benchmark interest rates on fixed rate debt. These instruments are designated as cash flow hedges at inception and are settled in conjunction with the issuance of debt. The effective portion of the contracts’ gains or losses is included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is amortized into income as the hedged item impacts earnings. 
At inception and at each quarter-end, hedges are tested prospectively and retrospectively for effectiveness using regression analysis. Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts due to changes in time value are included in the assessment of effectiveness. To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationship must meet criteria relating to both the derivative instrument and the hedged item. These criteria include identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows will be measured. There were no material gains or losses during the three or nine months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018 associated with forecasted transactions that failed to occur. 


item2.txt
Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers’ business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple dies or integrated circuits on a wafer. This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps. Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale. Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.
Despite recent semiconductor capital investment volatility, over the longer term, we believe that technology inflections in our industry, including 3D device scaling, multiple patterning, process flow, and advanced packaging chip integration will lead to an increase in our served addressable market for our products and services in deposition, etch, and clean. While there could be continued variability in the near-term, we believe that demand for our products and services will increase faster than overall spending on wafer fabrication equipment, as the proportion of customers’ capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas, and as we continue to gain market share.
In the March 2019 quarter, revenue decreased slightly compared to the December 2018 quarter. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the March 2019 quarter declined compared to the December 2018 quarter primarily due to lower factory and field utilization and customer and product mix. The increase in operating expenses in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 quarter was mainly driven by increases in employee-related costs resulting from seasonal impacts, an extra work week in the quarter, and restructuring charges. Additionally, our March 2019 quarter operating income was negatively impacted primarily by the appreciation of the stock market during the quarter as we incurred additional costs related to our deferred compensation plan liabilities. We have deferred compensation plan-related assets designed to mitigate market valuation exposure to these liabilities, and the market gains for the March 2019 quarter associated with these assets are recognized in other income and expense. 
Our deferred revenue balance at March 31, 2019 decreased to $441 million, as compared to $493 million as of December 23, 2018. Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to customers in Japan, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The estimated future revenue value from shipments to customers in Japan was approximately $80 million as of March 31, 2019, and $262 million as of December 23, 2018.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue reduced in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 quarter primarily due to lower factory and field utilization, customer and product mix, and deferred compensation plan-related costs. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the March 2019 quarter compared to the March 2018 quarter is primarily due to lower factory utilization and changes in customer and product mix. In the nine months ended March 31, 2019, gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower factory utilization. 
Interest income increased in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 quarter as a result of higher cash balances and higher yield. Interest income increased compared to the March 2018 quarter as a result of higher yield. Interest income increased in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 as a result of higher yield.


item3.txt
We mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. The portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification.


item4.txt
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over final reporting that are designed to comply with Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act. In designing and evaluating the controls and procedures associated with each, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and that the effectiveness of controls cannot be absolute because the cost to design and implement a control to identify errors or mitigate the risk of errors occurring should not outweigh the potential loss caused by the errors that would likely be detected by the control. Moreover, we believe that a control system cannot be guaranteed to be 100% effective all of the time. Accordingly, a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met.


part2.txt
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. If we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of increasing or declining demand, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted.
We have $4.8 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding. Additionally, we have funding available to us under our $1.25 billion commercial paper program and our $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which serves as a backstop to our commercial paper program. Our revolving credit facility also includes an option to increase the amount up to an additional $600.0 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion. We may, in the future, decide to enter into additional debt arrangements.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt. We could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments.
Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors. Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. As a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness.
Conversion of our Convertible Notes may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share. The number of shares of our Common Stock into which the Convertible Notes are convertible may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders. Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share. The price of our Common Stock could also be affected by sales of our Common 
Similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. If those institutions utilize a competitor’s equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. Even if they select our equipment, the institutions and the customers that follow their lead could impose conditions on acceptance of that equipment, such as adherence to standards and requirements or limitations on how we license our proprietary rights, that increase our costs or require us to take on greater risk. These actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results.
Outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. These providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us, or be unable to meet our requirements or expectation due to their independent business decisions or force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect.


