The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (the “Company") have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of September 30, 2018, $197 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $98 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 147 thousand and 382 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.Through our TransAct Services Group ("TSG"), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets.
Printer and terminal sales volume increased 12% to approximately 42 thousand units for the third quarter of 2018, driven primarily by a 73% increase in unit volume from the casino and gaming market and, to a lesser extent, a 9% increase in unit volume from the POS automation and banking market.
The average selling price of our printers and terminals increased 4% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 due primarily to lower lottery printer sales, which sell at a lower price than our other products.
International sales for the third quarter of 2018 increased $1.1 million, or 55%, from the same period in 2017 due primarily to a 58% increase in sales in the international casino and gaming market.
The decrease in domestic restaurant solutions terminal sales in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 was driven by lower sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal due to lower sales to McDonald's.
The increase in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue from the third quarter of 2017 was driven by a 22% increase in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald’s have returned to the near record levels experienced during 2017.
This increase was partially offset by 81% lower domestic sales of our legacy banking and other POS printers for the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017. International sales from our POS automation and banking products decreased during the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 due to lower sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer to our Canadian distributor for McDonald’s.
The increase in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products was due to an 79% increase in domestic sales of our thermal casino printer sales in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017, driven primarily by a large order of replacement printers from a domestic casino operator, as well as increased sales to our OEMs.
These increases were partially offset by lower sales of our EPICENTRAL™ software systems as no new installations were completed during the third quarter of 2018 compared to two installations completed during the third quarter of 2017.
The increase in international sales of our casino and gaming products in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 was due to a 76% increase in sales of our thermal casino printers.
These increases were due to the success of the transition away from using our previous exclusive worldwide distributor whose contract ended at the end of 2017 and included a large non-recurring order to an international OEM that we don’t expect to reoccur in the fourth quarter of 2018.Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2018.Item 1.