The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (the "Company") have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of June 30, 2018, $208 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $95 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 196 thousand and 407 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 147 thousand and 732 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.Through our TransAct Services Group ("TSG"), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets.
Printer and terminal sales volume increased 6% to approximately 39 thousand units driven primarily by an 81% increase in unit volume from the casino and gaming market and, to a lesser extent, a 14% increase in unit volume from the POS automation and banking market.
The average selling price of our printers and terminals increased 7% in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2018 due primarily to lower lottery printer sales.
International sales for the second quarter of 2018 increased $2.3 million, or 221%, from the same period in 2017 due primarily to a 267% increase in sales in the international casino and gaming market.
The increase in domestic restaurant solutions terminal sales in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017 was driven by the initial shipments of the AccuDate XL to two existing customers in support of large-scale, multi-quarter rollouts of the terminal.
This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal to our former U.S. distributor during the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017.
The increase in both domestic and international POS automation and banking product revenue from the second quarter of 2017 was driven by an 21% increase in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald's have returned to the near record levels experienced during 2017.
This increase was partially offset by 71% lower sales of our legacy banking and other POS printers for the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017.
The increase in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products was due to an 8% increase in domestic sales of our thermal casino printer sales in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017, driven primarily by increased sales to our OEMs.
The increase in international sales in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017 was due to a 366% increase in sales of our thermal casino printers and a 153% increase in sales of our off-premise gaming printers in Europe, Australia and Asia.
We expect international sales of both our thermal casino printers and off-premise gaming printers to continue to increase in the second half of 2018, as we benefit from the transition to selling directly to slot machine manufacturers and end user casino and gaming customers in Europe.Item 1.