fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019, did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
The New Lease Standard had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet due to the recognition of right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2019 are presented under the New Lease Standard, while prior period results have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use assets, current portion of long-term obligations, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet.
Finance lease ROU assets at March 31, 2019 of $2,783 are included in property and equipment, net in our consolidated balance sheet.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
Operating lease ROU assets also include any lease pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives.
Certain real property lease agreements have lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component.
Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
These operating leases are expected to commence in 2019 with lease terms of 5-11 years.
We maintain an unsecured, $500,000 syndicated multicurrency revolving credit agreement, which we use to fund seasonal working capital needs and for other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, dividends (if and as declared by our Board of Directors), capital expenditures, stock repurchases and issuances of letters of credit.


item2.txt
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements, including the notes thereto, included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products.
We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, and Carrier has a 20% non-controlling interest.
We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise II, and Carrier has a 20% non-controlling interest.
We believe that there have been no significant changes during the quarter ended March 31, 2019 to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Revenues for the first quarter of 2019 increased $4.7 million, or 1%, including $4.1 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $2.7 million from locations closed.
For HVAC equipment, the increase in revenues was primarily due to realization of price increases and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices, resulting in a 2% increase in the average selling price, partially offset by a 1% decrease in volume.
Gross profit for the first quarter of 2019 increased $2.9 million, or 1%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2019 increased $1.5 million, or 1%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 remained consistent at 19.3% as compared to the same period in 2018.
Other income of $1.4 million and $1.6 million for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, represents our share of the net income of RSI.
Interest expense, net, for the first quarter of 2019 increased $0.2 million, or 37%, primarily as a result of an increase in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a lower effective interest rate for the 2019 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2018.
The decrease was primarily due to higher share-based payment deductions in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
filed herewith.


