fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued a standard on revenue recognition that provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
The standard is principle-based and provides a five-step model to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance related to certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
Most prominent among the changes to the standard is the requirement that changes in the fair value of equity investments, with certain exceptions, be recognized through net income rather than other comprehensive income.
In May 2017, the FASB issued guidance to clarify when to account for a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the accounting for hedging derivatives.
In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
Our current minimum lease commitments are disclosed in Note 16 to our audited consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period results have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
We satisfy our performance obligations for services when we render the services within the agreed-upon service period.
Total service revenue is not material and accounted for less than 1% of our consolidated revenues for both the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Revenue is recognized when control transfers to our customers when picked up or via shipment of products or delivery of services.
We estimate sales incentives expected to be paid over the term of the program based on the most likely amounts.


item2.txt
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements, including the notes thereto, included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products.
Neither Watsco nor Carrier has any remaining options to purchase additional ownership interests in Carrier Enterprise I or any of our other joint ventures with Carrier, which are described below.
We believe that there have been no significant changes during the quarter ended September 30, 2018 to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Revenues for the third quarter of 2018 increased $66.4 million, or 5%, including $3.4 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.8 million from locations closed.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $66.8 million, or 5%, as compared to the same period in 2017, reflecting a 7% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales), which included a 6% increase in residential HVAC equipment and a 9% increase in commercial HVAC equipment, a 4% increase in sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) and flat sales of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).
The increase in same-store revenues was primarily due to realization of price increases, demand for the replacement of residential and commercial HVAC equipment and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices.
Gross profit for the third quarter of 2018 increased $23.1 million, or 8%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased to 15.5% versus 14.9% for the same period in 2017.
Other income of $3.7 million and $2.3 million for the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, represents our share of the net income of RSI.
Net interest expense for the third quarter of 2018 decreased $1.1 million, or 51%, primarily as a result of a decrease in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a higher effective interest rate for the 2018 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2017.
The effective income tax rates attributable to us were 23.3% and 32.8% for the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
filed herewith.


