References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “company” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. ASC Topic 606 defines a five-step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. 
Another change identified upon adoption was with respect to deferred contract costs, which include incremental costs of obtaining a contract and costs to fulfill a contract. Deferred contract costs had been minimal under our prior practices as most costs to obtain a contract and fulfill a contract were expensed as incurred. However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to Retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts. Substantially all of this adjustment is related to the deferral of sales commissions paid to sales people and agents in connection with the placement of equipment with post sale service arrangements.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligations in our Document management services arrangements as well the pattern of delivery for those services. 
Our services contracts may also include the sale or lease of equipment and software. In these instances, we follow the policies noted for Equipment or Software Revenues and separately report the revenue associated with these performance obligations. Certain document management services arrangements may also include an embedded lease of equipment. In these instances, the revenues associated with the lease are recognized in accordance with the requirements for lease accounting. 
maintenance agreements sold through distributors and resellers to end customers are recognized in a consistent manner to maintenance services. Revenue that may be subject to a reversal of revenue due to contractual terms or uncertainties is not recorded as revenue until the contractual provisions lapse or the uncertainties are resolved. 
In certain instances, we may provide lease financing to end-user customers who purchased equipment we sold to distributors or resellers. We are not obligated to provide financing and we compete with other third-party leasing companies with respect to the lease financing provided to these end-user customers.
Revenues under bundled arrangements are allocated considering the relative standalone selling prices of the lease and non-lease deliverables included in the bundled arrangement. Lease deliverables include the equipment, financing, maintenance and other executory costs, while non-lease deliverables generally consist of the supplies and non-maintenance services. The allocation for the lease deliverables begins by allocating revenues to the maintenance and other executory costs plus a profit thereon. These elements are generally recognized over the term of the lease as service revenue. The remaining amounts are allocated to the equipment and financing elements, which are subjected to the accounting estimates noted below under “Leases”.
We consider the economic life of most of our products to be five years, since this represents the most frequent contractual lease term for our principal products and only a small percentage of our leases are for original terms longer than five years. There is no significant after-market for our used equipment. We believe five years is representative of the period during which the equipment is expected to be economically usable, with normal service, for the purpose for which it is intended. Residual values are not significant.
With respect to fair value, we perform an analysis of equipment fair value based on cash selling prices during the applicable period. The cash selling prices are compared to the range of values determined for our leases. The range of cash selling prices must be reasonably consistent with the lease selling prices in order for us to determine that such lease prices are indicative of fair value.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, the incremental direct costs of obtaining a contract of $23 and $40, respectively, were deferred and the related amortization was $24 and $48, respectively. The balance of deferred incremental direct costs net of accumulated amortization at June 30, 2018 was $176. This amount is expected to be amortized over its estimated period of benefit, which we currently estimate to be approximately four years. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, with additional amendments being issued in 2018. This update requires the recognition of right-to-use assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases currently classified as operating leases under existing lease guidance. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition. Short term leases with a term of 12 months or less are not required to be recognized. The update also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosure of key information regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leasing arrangements to increase transparency and comparability among companies. 
The accounting for lessors does not fundamentally change except for changes to conform and align guidance to the lessee guidance as well as to the new revenue recognition guidance in ASU 2014-09. Some of these conforming changes such as those related to the definition of minimum lease payments, may potentially result in certain lease arrangements, which are currently accounted for as operating leases, being classified and accounted for as sales-type leases with a corresponding up-front recognition of equipment sales revenue. 
This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019. There are certain practical expedients that can be elected. On the Lessee side, a cross-functional implementation team has been established which is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process and policy change requirements. The Company has made progress in gathering the necessary data elements for the lease population and a system provider has been selected, with system configuration and implementation underway. The company is currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The Company is currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance. On the Lessor side, the Company continues to assess the potential impacts of the guidance on its lease agreements with customers, including potential changes in contracting terms, and we also expect to elect the package of practical expedients. 
The aggregate undiscounted value of our operating lease commitments at December 31, 2017 was approximately $450 and was primarily related to leases of facilities. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses - Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets. The update impacts financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through Net income. This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted as of January 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements. 
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows - Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. This update provides specific guidance on eight cash flow classification issues where current guidance is either unclear or does not include specific requirements. We adopted ASU 2016-15 effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018. This update includes specific guidance, that requires cash collected on beneficial interests received in a sale of receivables be classified as inflows from investing activities. Formerly, those collections were reported in operating cash flows. We reported $56 and $110 of collections on beneficial interests as operating cash inflows on the Statement of Cash Flows for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. Accordingly, since the update must be applied retrospectively, our reported 2017 operating and investing cash flows 
were revised in 2018 to report this amount as investing cash flows. There is no expected impact to our 2018 cash flows from this reporting change, due to the termination of all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and most arrangements in Europe and the final repurchase of previously sold finance receivables during the fourth quarter of 2017. The other seven issues noted in this update are not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Additionally, in November 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows - Restricted Cash. The update requires that amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with Cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. We adopted ASU 2016-18 effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018 and applied it retrospectively through a revision of previously reported amounts. We held $64 and $75 of restricted cash, currently reported in Other current or long-term assets at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The changes in our restricted cash balances were primarily related to our accounts receivable sales programs, which were terminated during the fourth quarter of 2017. Accordingly, this update is not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Refer to Note 5 - Supplementary Financial Information for additional information.
On December 31, 2016, Xerox completed the Separation of its BPO business through the Distribution of all of the issued and outstanding stock of Conduent to Xerox Corporation stockholders. As a result of the Separation and Distribution, the financial position and results of operations of the BPO business are presented as Discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from Continuing operations for all periods presented. The loss from operations for the six months ended June 30, 2017 primarily reflected changes in estimates of separation-related costs.
Restricted cash primarily relates to escrow cash deposits made in Brazil associated with tax and labor litigation. As more fully discussed in Note 18 - Contingencies and Litigation, various litigation matters in Brazil require us to make cash deposits to escrow as a condition of continuing the litigation. Restricted cash amounts are classified in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets based on when the cash is expected to be contractually or judicially released.
Amounts to be invoiced in the subsequent quarter for current services provided are included in amounts accrued.
Accounts receivable sales arrangements are utilized in the normal course of business as part of our cash and liquidity management. The accounts receivable sold are generally short-term trade receivables with payment due dates of less than 60 days. During the fourth quarter 2017, we terminated all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and all but one arrangement in Europe. The remaining facility in Europe enables us to sell accounts receivable associated with our distributor network on an ongoing basis, without recourse. Under this arrangement, we sell our entire interest in the related accounts receivable for cash and no portion of the payment is held back or deferred by the purchaser.
Of the accounts receivable sold and derecognized from our balance sheet, $131 and $161 remained uncollected as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. 
Finance receivables include sales-type leases, direct financing leases and installment loans arising from the marketing of our equipment. Our finance receivable portfolios are primarily in the U.S., Canada and Europe. We generally establish customer credit limits and estimate the allowance for credit losses on a country or geographic basis. Our policy and methodology used to establish our allowance for doubtful accounts has been consistently applied over all periods presented.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified. These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items that had been identified by the IIC (or Fujifilm's independent investigation committee). These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments. In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries where previous misstatements were identified. 
Refer to Note 19 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments for additional information regarding the bridge loan facility that was terminated during the second quarter of 2018. 
We use interest rate swap agreements to manage our interest rate exposure and to achieve a desired proportion of variable and fixed rate debt. These derivatives may be designated as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges depending on the nature of the risk being hedged.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we had outstanding forward exchange and purchased option contracts with gross notional values of $1,925 and $1,788 respectively, with terms of less than 12 months. Approximately 85% of the contracts at June 30, 2018 mature within three months, 7% mature in three to six months and 8% in six to twelve months. The associated currency exposures being hedged at June 30, 2018 were materially consistent with our year-end currency exposures. There has not been any material change in our hedging strategy.
We designate a portion of our foreign currency derivative contracts as cash flow hedges of our foreign currency-denominated inventory purchases, sales and expenses. The net asset (liability) fair value of these contracts were $4 and $(14) as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Derivative gains (losses) affect the income statement based on whether such derivatives are designated as hedges of underlying exposures. The following is a summary of derivative gains (losses).
As of June 30, 2018, a net after-tax gain of $2 was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss associated with our cash flow hedging activity. The entire balance is expected to be reclassified into Net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 currency (losses) gains, net were $(1) and $1, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 currency losses, net were $(1) and $(4), respectively. Net currency gains and losses include the mark-to-market adjustments of the derivatives not designated as hedging instruments and the related cost of those derivatives as well as the re-measurement of foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities and are included in Other expenses, net.
The following table represents assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The basis for the measurement at fair value in all cases is Level 2 – Significant Other Observable Inputs. 
The fair value amounts for Cash and cash equivalents and Accounts receivable, net, approximate carrying amounts due to the short maturities of these instruments. The fair value of Short-term debt, including the current portion of long-term debt, and Long-term debt was estimated based on the current rates offered to us for debt of similar maturities (Level 2). The difference between the fair value and the carrying value represents the theoretical net premium or discount we would pay or receive to retire all debt at such date.
The following table summarizes cash contributions to our defined benefit pension plans and retiree health benefit plans. 
There are no mandatory contributions required in 2018 for our U.S. tax-qualified defined benefit plans to meet the minimum funding requirements, however, our estimated 2018 contributions include $50 of voluntary contributions to these plans.
There were no repurchases of Xerox Common stock pursuant to Board authorized share repurchase programs during the first or second quarter of 2018.
The following is a summary of changes to our program design and performance metrics effective for our April 2018 grant, as approved by our board of directors (the "Board"). The Board also approved a change in the timing of our annual grant of awards from July to April, to better align our grant date with other annual incentive compensation payments and the underlying performance period related to PSs. We grant RSUs and PSs to officers, selected executives and middle managers, and SOs to officers and selected executives only.
In connection with the April 2018 grant, the Board only approved the performance measures and corresponding weightings for the 2018 performance year. The performance measures for 2019 and 2020 were expected to be determined by the Board at a later date in connection with the closing of the Fuji Xerox Transaction, which was terminated in May 2018. The Board is expected to approve measures for the 2019 and 2020 performance periods sometime during the second half of 2018. However, since the 2019 and 2020 performance measures have not been approved as of June 30, 2018, the criteria needed to establish a grant date has not been met and therefore the fair value of the April 2018 grant will continue to be revalued based on the period end stock price for each subsequent reporting period until the grant date criteria has been met.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the fair value determined by the Monte Carlo simulation and, except in cases of employee forfeiture, cannot be reversed regardless of performance. Shares granted during the three months ended June 30, 2018 were 333.
The labor matters principally relate to claims made by former employees and contract labor for the equivalent payment of all social security and other related labor benefits, as well as consequential tax claims, as if they were regular employees. As of June 30, 2018, the total amounts related to the unreserved portion of the tax and labor contingencies, inclusive of any related interest, amounted to approximately $510, with the decrease from our December 31, 2017 balance of approximately $600, primarily related to currency, partially offset by new cases and interest. With respect to the unreserved balance of approximately $510, the majority has been assessed by management as being remote as to the likelihood of ultimately resulting in a loss to the Company. In connection with the above proceedings, customary local regulations may require us to make escrow cash deposits or post other security of up to half of the total amount in dispute. As of June 30, 2018, we had $62 of escrow cash deposits for matters we are disputing and additional letters of credit and surety bonds of $113 and $91, respectively, which include associated indexation. There were no liens on any of our Brazilian assets as of June 30, 2018. Generally, any escrowed amounts would be refundable and any liens would be removed to the extent the matters are resolved in our favor. We routinely assess all these matters as to the probability of ultimately incurring a liability against our Brazilian operations and record our best estimate of the ultimate loss in situations where we assess the likelihood of an ultimate loss as probable.
Another complaint filed by Darwin Deason, a Xerox shareholder, against Xerox and its directors in the same Court on March 2, 2018 alleged that defendants breached their fiduciary duties by refusing Mr. Deason’s request for a waiver of the deadline for nomination of a new slate of Xerox directors, and sought to enjoin Xerox and its directors from enforcing Xerox’s advance notice by-laws, thereby allowing Mr. Deason to proceed with the nominations, as well as costs, fees, and other relief.
On April 27, 2018, the Court issued decisions and orders granting plaintiffs’ preliminary injunction motions, which (i) enjoin Xerox from “taking any further action to consummate the change of control transaction between Xerox and Fuji that was announced on January 31, 2018 pending a final determination of the claims asserted in the underlying action;” (ii) enjoin Xerox from enforcing its advance notice bylaw provision requiring shareholders to nominate directors for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting by December 11, 2017; and (iii) require Xerox to waive such advance notice bylaw provision to permit the noticing of a slate of director nominees for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting, and denying defendants’ motions to dismiss.
On May 1, 2018, Xerox entered into a Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”) with Carl Icahn and Darwin Deason, among others, that would have resolved the pending proxy contest in connection with Xerox’s 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, as well as the ongoing litigation brought by Mr. Deason against Xerox and its directors related to the Fuji Transaction. The agreement expired by its terms on May 3, 2018 without becoming effective.
On June 14, 2018, Fujifilm filed answers in the first Deason case and the putative class case, along with cross-claims against the members of the Xerox Board (as constituted before May 13, 2018) and a third-party complaint against Xerox director Jonathan Christodoro, seeking contribution for any potential award against Fujifilm for aiding and abetting purported breaches of fiduciary duties.
On June 19, 2018, the putative class plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary approval of a stipulation of settlement that would resolve the claims asserted by the plaintiffs in the putative class case against all defendants, other than Fujifilm. Carmen Ribbe, the plaintiff in the below derivative action, and Fujifilm filed oppositions to the motion on July 10, 2018. 
On June 22, 2018, the Court entered an order denying a joint motion by the putative class plaintiffs and the settling defendants to dissolve the injunction in the class case as against the settling defendants, and entered an order denying Fujifilm’s motion to dissolve the injunctions in the class case and the first Deason case in their entirety. The class has not yet been certified, and preliminary approval has not been granted.
On June 18, 2018, Fujifilm filed a complaint against Xerox in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, relating to the Fuji Transaction agreements. The complaint alleges that Xerox (1) willfully breached the Fuji Transaction agreements by purporting to terminate them to appease Messrs. Icahn and Deason and using as a pretext issues with Fujifilm’s untimely submitted financials, and by settling the Deason litigation without notice to or consent by Fujifilm; (2) willfully breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by failing to support and use best efforts to conclude the Fuji Transaction, thus depriving Fujifilm of the benefit of its bargain; and (3) effected a change in Xerox’s recommendation regarding the Fuji Transaction, entitling Fujifilm to terminate the Fuji Transaction agreements and to receive from Xerox a $183 termination fee. Fujifilm seeks a judgment for damages to be determined at trial in an amount in excess of $1.0 billion plus punitive damages; a declaration regarding the alleged change in recommendation such that Fujifilm may terminate the transaction and Xerox must pay the $183 termination fee and other remedies; costs and attorneys’ fees; and other relief the court may deem appropriate. Xerox has not yet responded to the complaint. 
to that complaint following the Court’s appointment of lead plaintiff under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. On February 28, 2017, the Court issued an opinion and order appointing the Arkansas Public Employees Retirement System ("APERS") as lead plaintiff. On May 1, 2017, APERS filed an amended complaint, alleging substantially similar claims and seeking substantially similar relief, but adding David Bywater and Mary Scanlon as defendants. On June 30, 2017, defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint, and the motions were fully briefed on October 13, 2017. On March 20, 2018, the Court entered an opinion and order granting the motions, and on March 23, 2018, the Court entered a judgment of dismissal and closed the case. On April 20, 2018, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Xerox will vigorously defend against this matter. At this time, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in this litigation. Should developments cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome, or result in a final adverse judgment or settlement, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period in which such change in determination, judgment, or settlement occurs.
We have issued or provided approximately $328 of guarantees as of June 30, 2018 in the form of letters of credit or surety bonds issued to i) support certain insurance programs; ii) support our obligations related to the Brazil tax and labor contingencies; and iii) support certain contracts, primarily with public sector customers, which require us to provide a surety bond as a guarantee of our performance of contractual obligations.
In general, we would only be liable for the amount of these guarantees in the event we defaulted in performing our obligations under each contract; the probability of which we believe is remote. We believe that our capacity in the surety markets as well as under various credit arrangements (including our Credit Facility) is sufficient to allow us to respond to future requests for proposals that require such credit support.
Refer to Note 18 - Contingencies and Litigation for discussion of the Pending Litigation Relating to the Fuji Xerox Transaction.
On January 31, 2018, Xerox entered into (i) a Redemption Agreement with FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation, a Japanese company (“Fujifilm”), and Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd., a Japanese company, in which Xerox indirectly holds a 25% equity interest while Fujifilm holds the remaining 75% equity interest (“Fuji Xerox”), and (ii) a Subscription Agreement with Fujifilm (collectively, the “Transaction Agreements”). Under the terms of the Transaction Agreements, Fuji Xerox would have become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Xerox, Xerox shareholders would have received a $2.5 billion special cash dividend and Xerox would have become owned 49.9% by Xerox's shareholders as of the closing date for the transaction and 50.1% by Fujifilm. 
the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Subscription Agreement not to be satisfied, which breach or failure to perform cannot be cured or, if capable of cure, has not been cured by the earlier of 30 days following written notice thereof from the Company to Fujifilm. By virtue of the termination of the Subscription Agreement, the Redemption Agreement terminated automatically. The Company's termination of the Transaction Agreements is the subject of pending litigation.
As a result of the failure by Fujifilm to deliver the audited financial statements of FX by April 15, 2018 and the material deviations reflected in the audited financial statements of FX, when delivered, the Company determined that it is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to terminate the Subscription Agreement in accordance with the termination rights set forth therein, taking into account other circumstances limiting the ability of the Company, Fujifilm and FX to consummate a transaction.
On January 31, 2018, Xerox entered into a Commitment Letter with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., which provided a commitment for a $2.5 billion unsecured bridge loan facility that would have been available for Xerox to pay the special one-time cash dividend of $2.5 billion to existing shareholders of Xerox in connection with the Transaction Agreements, as described above.
Concurrent with the termination of the Transaction Agreements, the commitment to provide the unsecured bridge loan facility was terminated in the second quarter 2018 and, as a result, the remaining unamortized debt issuance costs of $16 were written-off. 
The information set forth under Note 18 – Contingencies and Litigation in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated by reference in answer to this Item.
