In March 2019, Xerox Corporation (“Xerox”) announced plans to create a new public holding company, Xerox Holdings Corporation (“Xerox Holdings”), by implementing a holding company reorganization (the “Reorganization”). On July 31, 2019, Xerox completed the Reorganization. In the Reorganization, Xerox became a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Xerox Holdings and Xerox Holdings became the successor issuer to Xerox. We believe implementation of a holding company structure will provide us with flexibility to develop and realize a range of strategic growth opportunities, including by pursuing different capital structures for new businesses, whether incubated or acquired. Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation, Corporate Reorganization, in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Reorganization. 
Currency Impact
To understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency. We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Overview
Third Quarter 2019 Review 
Cash flows provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $895 million, as compared to $725 million in the prior year period primarily reflecting lower working capital2, increased dividends from equity investments, and lower cash payments for Transaction and related costs, net. These benefits were partially offset by higher payments for restructuring related costs as well as taxes. Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $68 million including capital expenditures of $48 million and acquisitions of $42 million partially offset by proceeds from the sale of non-core assets. Cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $983 million reflecting payments of $406 million on Senior Notes, $368 million for share repurchases and dividend payments of $183 million.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Revenues in the first half of 2019 were impacted by organizational changes, primarily in North America. This impact gradually mitigated during the latter part of the second quarter and was much less of an impact in the third quarter. We expect total revenues to decline approximately 7.9% in 2019, including an approximate 1.5-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. Additionally, we continue to expect share repurchases of at least $600 million and dividend payments to shareholders of $250 million in 2019 and we increased our expectations for full year 2019 cash flows from operations to be between $1,175 million and $1,275 million, up from between $1,150 million to $1,250 million, and decreased our expectations for capital expenditures to $75 million, down from $150 million.
HP Inc. Agreement
In addition, we will provide toner for both our printers included in this agreement and certain HP printers, which will allow us to add volume to our emulsion aggregation (EA) toner plant in Webster, NY. Further, as part of our growth strategy to increase our penetration of the small-to-medium size business (SMB) market, Xerox will also become a Device as a Service (DaaS) partner for HP in the US. We will be able to sell HP PCs, displays and accessories, with or without DaaS, to our US SMB clients. Lastly, HP will also make DocuShare Flex, Xerox's cloud-based content management platform, available on commercial PCs distributed in the U.S., giving a major lift to our software growth strategy.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Revenues
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
Post sale revenue 
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Equipment sales revenue
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Installs reflect new placement of devices only. Revenue associated with equipment installations may be reflected up-front in Equipment sales or over time either through rental income or as part of our Xerox Services revenues (which are both reported within our post sale revenues), depending on the terms and conditions of our agreements with customers. Installs include activity from Xerox Services and Xerox-branded products shipped to our XBS sales unit. Detail by product group (see Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions) is shown below.
•10% increase in color multifunction devices reflecting higher installs of ConnectKey devices primarily from our indirect channels in the U.S. partially offset by lower installs from EMEA.
•6% decrease in black-and-white multifunction devices driven by lower activity primarily from our indirect channels in the U.S. and from EMEA.
•2% increase in mid-range color installs primarily reflecting installs associated with a large account's refresh cycle order.
•12% increase in high-end color installs reflecting continued demand for our Iridesse production press and higher installs of our lower-end Versant production systems as well as higher activity from iGen in North America.
•22% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems. 
•1% increase in color multifunction devices reflecting higher installs of ConnectKey devices primarily from our indirect channels in the U.S. partially offset by lower installs from EMEA.
•2% decrease installs of black-and-white multifunction devices reflecting lower activity primarily from U.S. Enterprise and from EMEA, partially offset by higher activity from our indirect channels in the U.S., as well as from XBS.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
•16% decrease in mid-range black-and-white reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices primarily from indirect channels in the U.S. and from EMEA.
•1% decrease in high-end color installs reflecting lower activity from iGen primarily in EMEA, partially offset by continued strong demand for our Iridesse production press and higher installs of our Versant production and inkjet cut-sheet systems. 
Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions
•Americas, which includes our sales channels in the U.S. and Canada, as well as Mexico, and Central and South America.
•EMEA, which includes our sales channels in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India. 
•“Entry”, which includes A4 devices and desktop printers. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $150 to $3,000.
•“Mid-Range”, which includes A3 Office and Light Production devices that generally serve workgroup environments in mid to large enterprises. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $2,000 to $75,000+.
•“High-End”, which includes production printing and publishing systems that generally serve the graphic communications marketplace and large enterprises. Prices for these systems can range from approximately $30,000 to $1,000,000+.
•Xerox Services, formerly known as Managed Document Services (MDS), which includes solutions and services that span from managing print to automating processes to managing content. Our primary offerings are Intelligent Workplace Services (IWS), which is our rebranded Managed Print Services, as well as Digital and Cloud Print Services (including centralized print services). Xerox Services also includes Communication and Marketing Solutions that were previously excluded from our former MDS definition. 
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Summary of Key Financial Ratios
Pre-tax Income Margin
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses (SAG)
SAG of $513 million decreased $70 million as compared to third quarter 2018, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as lower compensation and incentives (consistent with lower revenues); the decrease also includes the favorable impacts of approximately $6 million from translation currency and $5 million from higher costs in the prior year associated with the termination of certain IT projects. Bad debt expense of $13 million was $3 million higher compared to third quarter 2018 and on a trailing twelve month basis (TTM) remained at less than one percent of total receivables.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
SAG as a percentage of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of 23.6% decreased by 1.5-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, primarily reflecting the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our Project Own It transformation actions. 
SAG for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of $1,580 million decreased $255 million as compared to the prior year period, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as lower compensation and incentives (consistent with lower revenues); the decrease also includes favorable impacts of approximately $28 million from translation currency and $34 million from higher costs in the prior year related to the termination of certain IT projects and the accelerated depreciation associated with the exit of a surplus real estate facility. Bad debt expense of $38 million was $3 million higher compared to the prior year period and on a trailing twelve month basis (TTM) remained at less than one percent of total receivables.
Restructuring and Related Costs
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Restructuring and related costs were $91 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and included $104 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 1,850 employees worldwide and $13 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $26 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
The restructuring reserve balance as of September 30, 2019 for all programs was $57 million, which is expected to be paid over the next twelve months.
Refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs.
Transaction and Related Costs, Net
Amortization of intangible assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of $35 million decreased by $1 million as compared to the prior year period. 
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment was approximately 27,600 as of September 30, 2019 and decreased by approximately 4,800 from December 31, 2018. The reduction resulted from net attrition (attrition net of gross hires), of which a large portion is not expected to be backfilled, as well as the impact of organizational changes including employees transferred as part of the shared services arrangement entered into with HCL Technologies earlier this year.
Other Expenses, Net
Third quarter non-financing interest expense of $27 million was $1 million lower than third quarter 2018. When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $1 million from third quarter 2018 primarily due to a lower debt balance.
Non-financing interest expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of $80 million was $4 million lower than the prior year period. When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $6 million from the prior year period primarily due to a lower debt balance.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Non-Service Retirement-Related Costs
Non-service retirement-related costs for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased $35 million and $62 million, respectively, as compared to the prior year periods, primarily driven by the favorable impact of a 2018 amendment to our U.S. Retiree Health Plan and lower losses from pension settlements in the U.S.
Refer to Note 16 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding non-service retirement-related costs.
Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets
Gains on sales of businesses and assets for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased $16 million as compared to the third quarter 2018, reflecting the sale of non-core business assets in the third quarter 2019. Gains on sales of businesses and assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $15 million as compared to the prior year period, reflecting the higher sales of non-core business assets in the prior year.
Litigation Matters
Litigation matters for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $9 million lower than the prior year period, reflecting the favorable resolution of certain litigation matters in third quarter 2019.
Contract Termination Costs - IT Services
Contract termination costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were an $8 million credit reflecting an adjustment to a $43 million penalty recorded in fourth quarter 2018, associated with the termination of an IT service arrangement.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Equity in Net Income (Loss) of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates primarily reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox Net income (loss). For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, equity income increased $15 million and $143 million as compared to the prior year periods, primarily reflecting savings from Fuji Xerox restructuring. Equity income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, also increased as a result of $7 million and $71 million of lower year-over-year charges related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other charges, as compared to the respective prior year periods. Additionally, equity income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased as a result of an approximate $28 million charge related to an out-of-period charge at Fuji Xerox in the prior year. 
Refer to Note 11 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our Investment in Fuji Xerox as well as the prior period out-of-period adjustment.
Net Income
Third quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $221 million, or $0.96 per diluted share. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $248 million, or $1.08 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $535 million, or $2.27 per diluted share. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $700 million, or $2.97 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
Third quarter 2018 Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $89 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, which included an estimated non-cash charge of $95 million or $0.37 per diluted share associated with the Tax Act. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $222 million, or $0.85 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $224 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, which included an estimated non-cash charge of $95 million or $0.37 per diluted share associated with the Tax Act. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $613 million, or $2.33 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
Refer to Note 21 - Earnings per Share in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share.
Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $979 million and $1,148 million, respectively. There were no borrowings under our Credit Facility at September 30, 2019 or December 31, 2018, respectively. The decrease in total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash primarily reflects the repayment of $406 million of maturing Senior Notes in first quarter 2019.
We have updated our expectations for operating cash flows from continuing operations to be between $1,175 million and $1,275 million from our original expectation of between $1,150 million and $1,250 million, as well as our expectation for capital expenditures to be approximately $75 million from our original expectation of $150 million. We continue to expect dividend payments to shareholders of approximately $250 million and share repurchases of at least $600 million in 2019. 
•$69 million increase due to lower placements of equipment on operating leases.
•$59 million increase from lower restructuring payments primarily due to timing of initiatives and actions.
•$32 million increase in dividends received from equity investments primarily due to increased net income from Fuji Xerox.
•$28 million increase from the settlements of foreign currency derivative contracts associated with our Yen-denominated inventory purchases.
•$25 million increase from accounts receivable primarily due to the timing of collections and lower revenues.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
•$26 million decrease due to higher net tax payments
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
•$42 million decrease primarily due to two acquisitions.
•$25 million increase reflecting lower capital expenditures.
•$93 million increase from net debt activity. 2019 reflects payments of $406 million on Senior Notes compared to prior year payments of $265 million on Senior Notes, $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $19 million of bridge facility costs.
•$84 million increase due to share repurchases.
Adoption of New Leasing Standard
On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC Topic 842). This update, as well as additional amendments and targeted improvements issued in 2018 and early 2019, supersedes existing lease accounting guidance found under ASC 840, Leases (ASC 840) and requires the recognition of right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases originally classified as operating leases under prior lease guidance.
In connection with the Company's strategic initiative to simplify and optimize its operations, the Company conducted a thorough evaluation of its customer financing business, including consideration of strategic alternatives for the business. The Company received multiple bids to purchase all or a portion of the business at an attractive premium, but has determined that retaining and optimizing the business through Project Own It will generate the greatest return for shareholders.
Refer to Note 7 - Supplementary Financial Information in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Debt and Customer Financing Activities
Finance Assets and Related Debt
Debt Activity 
Senior Notes Repayment
In first quarter 2019, we repaid approximately $406 million of maturing Senior Notes.
Sales of Accounts Receivable
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Refer to Note 8 - Accounts Receivable, Net in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our accounts receivable sales arrangements.
Liquidity and Financial Flexibility
We manage our worldwide liquidity using internal cash management practices, which are subject to i) the statutes, regulations and practices of each of the local jurisdictions in which we operate, ii) the legal requirements of the agreements to which we are a party and iii) the policies and cooperation of the financial institutions we utilize to maintain and provide cash management services.
Treasury Stock
In connection with the reorganization of Xerox Corporation’s corporate structure into a holding company structure, in July 2019, Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program (exclusive of any commissions and other transaction fees and costs related thereto.) This program replaced the $1.0 billion of authority remaining under Xerox Corporation’s previously authorized $2.0 billion share repurchase program. 
For information related to the Reorganization of Xerox Corporation and Xerox Holdings, refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation - Corporate Reorganization in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information regarding our share repurchase program, refer to Note 17 - Shareholders' Equity of Xerox Holdings Corporation in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 18 - Shareholders' Equity of Xerox Corporation in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Financial Risk Management
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Adjusted Earnings Measures
•Effective tax rate
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
•Contract termination costs - IT Services
Adjusted Operating Income and Margin
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents 
During the quarter ended September 30, 2019, Xerox Holdings Corporation issued the following securities in transactions that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Act”).
d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.
In connection with the reorganization of Xerox Corporation’s corporate structure into a holding company structure, in July 2019, Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program (exclusive of any commissions and other transaction fees and costs related thereto.) This program replaced the $1.0 billion of authority remaining under Xerox Corporation’s previously authorized $2.0 billion share repurchase program. Shares of Xerox Holdings Corporation’s common stock may be repurchased on the open market, or through derivative or negotiated transactions. Open-market repurchases will be made in compliance with the Securities and Exchanges Commission’s Rule 10b-18, and are subject to market conditions, as well as applicable legal and other considerations.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents 
