fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying consolidated financial statements of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Company”) are unaudited and have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the year ending December 31, 2019.
2018-07, "Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting" ("ASU 2018-07").
The standard more closely aligns the accounting for employee and nonemployee share-based payments.
The standard did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements or disclosures.
The standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company designs, markets and sells products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third party agency fees.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
Warranty liabilities are established at the time that revenue is recognized at levels that represent the Company's estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements.
Provisions for estimated losses on sales or related receivables are recorded when identified.


item2.txt
While the backlog is subject to order cancellations, we have not historically experienced a significant amount of order cancellations.
Revenue.
Consolidated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, increased by 1.2 percent year over year, from $439.6 million in the first quarter of 2018 to $444.7 million in the first quarter of 2019.
Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods.
Overall, we anticipate that revenue from international sales will continue to comprise a significant percentage of total revenue.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
See Note 17, “Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company’s legal proceedings.
We derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts funded by United States government agencies.
A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business.
Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets.
Most of these intangibles are the result of acquisitions in which the purchase price exceeded the value of the tangible assets acquired.
We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events.
To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future.
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future.


