fls.txt



item1.txt
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the year ending December 31, 2018.
2014-09, "Revenue - Revenue from Contracts with Customers" ("ASU 2014-09").
As a result, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of approximately $1.0 million as of January 1, 2018.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
The Company expects the impact of the adoption of the new standard to be immaterial to net income on an ongoing basis.
For additional disclosures required by the new revenue standard see Note 2, "Revenue."
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price.
The vast majority of the Company's revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third party agency fees.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are in included in cost of goods sold.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis.
The Company had no material deferred contract costs recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2018.
Remaining performance obligations related to ASC 606 represent the aggregate transaction price allocated to performance obligations with an original contract term greater than one year which are fully or partially unsatisfied at the end of the period.


item2.txt
While the backlog is subject to order cancellations, we have not historically experienced a significant number of order cancellations.
Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods.
Overall, we anticipate that revenue from international sales will continue to comprise a significant percentage of total revenue.
Cost of goods sold.
Cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $221.7 million, compared to cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2017 of $215.5 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of its business.
Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance the long-term competitiveness of the Company.
We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales.
Most of these intangibles are the result of acquisitions in which the purchase price exceeded the value of the tangible assets acquired.
We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events.
To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future.


