 ITEM 3.  



QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  



We have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit rating changes, equity and bond markets. A portion of these risks may be hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  



Interest Rate Risk. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio including investment in debt security in Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”, formerly known as “K.K. Pangea”). As of March 29, 2019, we had no other-than-temporary impairment for our investment in debt security and we had no available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. We determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of March 29, 2019.  



We have fixed rate and variable rate debt obligations. We enter into debt obligations for general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. Our 2019 revolving credit facility bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus a variable margin.  



The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of March 29, 2019.  





Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. Our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. At this time, we have not identified any material exposure associated with the potential changes related to the British vote to exit the European Union.  



We hedge portions of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. Our foreign currency forward exchange contracts include an aggregate notional amount of 139.5 billion Japanese Yen ($1.3 billion at March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018), to hedge foreign exchange fluctuations of our investment principal in non-convertible preferred stock debt security of TMC. We did not designate these contracts as hedges under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging and, therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. All foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above mature within 12 months.  



We evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively. As of March 29, 2019, our foreign currency forward exchange contracts include a notional amount of approximately 10.1 billion Japanese Yen ($91 million), to hedge the PIK income related to our TMC investment, out of which $39 million is designated as a cash flow hedge and the remainder of $52 million was de-designated and included in contracts not designated as hedges.  





Table of Contents 



We did not have any material net gains or losses recognized in Other expense, net for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019.  



The table below provides information as of March 29, 2019 about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. The table is provided in U.S. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted-average contractual foreign currency exchange rates.  







Equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts.  



Other Market Risks. We have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. We monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. We also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institution. Additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk.  



Changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our near term financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future ability to raise capital, increase the cost of such capital and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties.  



We have an investment in debt security of $1.3 billion carried at amortized cost. We review our debt security for impairment when events and circumstances indicate a decline in fair value of such asset below carrying value is other-than-temporary.  



We are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our Seagate Deferred Compensation Plan (the “SDCP”). In fiscal year 2014, we entered into a Total Return Swap (“TRS”) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the SDCP liabilities. We pay a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS. The TRS is designed to substantially offset changes in the SDCP liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. See “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 7. Derivative Financial Instruments” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  



 ITEM 3.  



DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES  



None.  





Table of Contents 



