item1.txt
Product revenue includes sales from operating systems; cross-device productivity applications; server applications; business solution applications; desktop and server management tools; software development tools; video games; and hardware such as PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
In cases where we allocate revenue to software updates, primarily because the updates are provided at no additional charge, revenue is recognized as the updates are provided, which is generally ratably over the estimated life of the related device or license.
Revenue related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis is recognized ratably over the contract period.
Revenue related to cloud services provided on a consumption basis, such as the amount of storage used in a period, is recognized based on the customer utilization of such resources.
When cloud services require a significant level of integration and interdependency with software and the individual components are not considered distinct, all revenue is recognized over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
In these cases, the hardware and software license are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to resellers or directly to end customers through retail stores and online marketplaces.
Refer to Note 19 – Segment Information and Geographic Data for further information, including revenue by significant product and service offering.
When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time.
We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services.
Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include SA and cloud services.
Unearned revenue also includes payments for consulting services to be performed in the future; LinkedIn subscriptions; Office 365 subscriptions; Xbox Live subscriptions; Windows 10 post-delivery support; Dynamics business solutions; Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard related to leases to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet.
For certain multi-year commercial software subscriptions that include both distinct software licenses and SA, we recognize license revenue at the time of contract execution rather than over the subscription period.
Adoption of the standard using the full retrospective method required us to restate certain previously reported results, including the recognition of additional revenue and an increase in the provision for income taxes, primarily due to the net change in Windows 10 revenue recognition.
In addition, adoption of the standard resulted in an increase in accounts receivable and other current and long-term assets, driven by unbilled receivables from upfront recognition of revenue for certain multi-year commercial software subscriptions that include both distinct software licenses and SA; a reduction of unearned revenue, driven by the upfront recognition of license revenue from Windows 10 and certain multi-year commercial software subscriptions; and an increase in deferred income taxes, driven by the upfront recognition of revenue.
Adoption of the standards related to revenue recognition and leases had no impact to cash from or used in operating, financing, or investing on our consolidated cash flows statements.
A cumulative-effect adjustment will capture any previously held unrealized gains and losses held in AOCI related to our equity investments carried at fair value as well as the impact of recording the fair value of certain equity investments carried at cost.
Foreign currency risks related to certain non-U.S. dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated as fair value hedging instruments.
Market price risk is managed relative to broad-based global and domestic equity indices using certain convertible preferred investments, options, futures, and swap contracts not designated as hedging instruments.
Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot prices for currencies.
We measure certain assets, including our cost and equity method investments, at fair value on a nonrecurring basis when they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired.
The fair values of these investments are determined based on valuation techniques using the best information available, and may include quoted market prices, market comparables, and discounted cash flow projections.
Technology-based intangible assets included $19 million and $59 million of net carrying amount of software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed as of March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate, primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico.
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, we recorded an estimated net charge of $13.8 billion related to the TCJA, due to the impact of the one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income of $17.8 billion, offset in part by the impact of changes in the tax rate of $4.0 billion, primarily on deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Revenue from certain contracts is allocated among the segments based on the relative value of the underlying products and services, which can include allocation based on actual prices charged, prices when sold separately, or estimated costs plus a profit margin.
Operating expenses that are allocated primarily include those relating to marketing of products and services from which multiple segments benefit, and are generally allocated based on relative gross margin.
We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of June 30, 2017, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and stockholders’ equity for the year then ended prior to retrospective adjustment for the changes in the Company's method of accounting for revenue from contracts with customers and for leases, (not presented herein); and in our report dated August 2, 2017, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
Some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end-users, and earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products.
We will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, Microsoft Office, Bing, SQL Server, Windows Server, the Windows Store, Microsoft Azure, Office 365, other cloud-based offerings, Xbox Live, and LinkedIn. We also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment including PCs, tablets, gaming devices, and HoloLens.
If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue.
We may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for several years, if at all.
Changes in the law or interpretations of the law may weaken our ability to prevent third parties from scraping or gathering information or content through use of bots or other measures and using it for their own benefit, thus diminishing the value of our products and services.
These actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include developing and deploying malicious software or exploiting vulnerabilities in hardware, software, or other infrastructure in order to attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and datacenters, using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data, or acting in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks.
Breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our reputation or competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business.
Customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data.
To defend against security threats to our internal IT systems, our cloud-based services, and our customers’ systems, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities in our own products as well as those provided by others, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide customers security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software and information about the need to deploy security measures and the impact of doing so.
Improper disclosure or misuse could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers or users, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.
Our software products and services also enable our customers and users to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host.
Despite our efforts to protect customer and user data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities.
Additional security measures we may take to address customer or user concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer or user expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses or hinder growth of our products and services.
Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data or insufficient Internet connectivity, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition.
Compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue.
Laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may impede the adoption of our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against us.
Changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services.
If global credit and equity markets decline for long periods, or if there is a downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results.


item2.txt
Server products and cloud services revenue increased 20%, driven by Azure revenue growth of 93%.
Windows Commercial revenue increased 21%, driven by an increased volume of multi-year agreements and the mix of products that carry higher in-quarter revenue recognition.
Strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted reported revenue and increased reported expenses from our international operations.
Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven by higher revenue from Office and LinkedIn. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, primarily due to higher revenue from server products and cloud services.
Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven by LinkedIn and higher revenue from Office.
Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, primarily due to higher revenue from server products and cloud services.
Cost of revenue increased $2.8 billion or 11%, mainly due to growth in our commercial cloud, LinkedIn, Gaming, and Search advertising, offset in part by a reduction in Phone cost of revenue.
Revenue increased $1.3 billion or 17%, including a favorable foreign currency impact of 3%.
Office Commercial revenue increased $754 million or 14%, driven by Office 365 commercial revenue growth, mainly due to growth in subscribers, offset in part by lower revenue from products licensed on-premises, reflecting a continued shift to Office 365 commercial.
Operating expenses increased $468 million or 14%, driven by investments in LinkedIn, commercial sales capacity, and cloud engineering.
Revenue increased $1.2 billion or 17%, including a favorable foreign currency impact of 2%.
Server products and cloud services revenue increased $1.0 billion or 20%, driven by Azure revenue growth of 93% and server products licensed on-premises revenue growth of 3%.
Windows Commercial revenue increased 21%, driven by an increased volume of multi-year agreements and the mix of products that carry higher in-quarter revenue recognition.
Gaming revenue increased $345 million or 18%, driven by Xbox software and services revenue growth of 24%, mainly from third-party title strength.
Office Commercial revenue increased $1.8 billion or 12%, driven by Office 365 commercial revenue growth, mainly due to growth in subscribers, offset in part by lower revenue from products licensed on-premises, reflecting a continued shift to Office 365 commercial.
LinkedIn cost of revenue increased $768 million to $1.3 billion, including $664 million of amortization for acquired intangible assets.
Operating expenses increased $2.6 billion or 34%, driven by LinkedIn expenses and investments in commercial sales capacity and cloud engineering.
Server products and cloud services revenue increased $2.8 billion or 18%, driven by Azure revenue growth of 94% and server products licensed on-premises revenue growth of 3%.
Operating expenses increased $391 million or 5%, driven by investments in commercial sales capacity and cloud engineering.
Gaming revenue increased $658 million or 9%, driven by Xbox software and services revenue growth of 15%, mainly from third-party title strength.
Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.5 billion or 14%, primarily due to LinkedIn expenses and investments in commercial sales capacity, offset in part by a decrease in Windows marketing expenses.


part2.txt
We face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins.
Barriers to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services.
Our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers.
Advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products.
Some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end-users, and earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products.
At the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers.
We will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, Microsoft Office, Bing, SQL Server, Windows Server, the Windows Store, Microsoft Azure, Office 365, other cloud-based offerings, Xbox Live, and LinkedIn. We also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment including PCs, tablets, gaming devices, and HoloLens.
If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue.
These actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include developing and deploying malicious software or exploiting vulnerabilities in hardware, software, or other infrastructure in order to attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and datacenters, using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data, or acting in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks.
Breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our reputation or competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business.
Security threats are a significant challenge to companies like us whose business is providing technology products and services to others.
Customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data.
To defend against security threats to our internal IT systems, our cloud-based services, and our customers’ systems, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities in our own products as well as those provided by others, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide customers security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software and information about the need to deploy security measures and the impact of doing so.
Improper disclosure or misuse could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers or users, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.
Our software products and services also enable our customers and users to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host.
Despite our efforts to protect customer and user data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities.
Additional security measures we may take to address customer or user concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer or user expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses or hinder growth of our products and services.
Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data or insufficient Internet connectivity, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition.
Other regulatory areas that may apply to our products and online services offerings include user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, and online content.
Compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue.
Laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may impede the adoption of our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against us.
Providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results.
Changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services.


