 Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This commentary should be read in conjunction with the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.  



 Business Overview and Environment  



 TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems. Although we sell products to customers in many countries, approximately 98% of our sales are made to customers in the United States. We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.   







 Our third quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 4.1% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018. We experienced third quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segment of 7.8% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 2.1%, as compared to the third fiscal quarter of 2018. The growth in our commercial segment was driven by an increase in our public carrier market related to increased sales to Tier 1 carriers and associated contractors. For the retail segment, revenue decreased due, in part, to the decline in lower consumer traffic in retail stores and a decrease in Ventev mobile device accessory sales. Among our product categories, revenue increased in our base station infrastructure category by 18.7%.   



 Our third quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 4.7%, compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above. Gross margin for the third quarter fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2018 was 20.4% and 20.2%, respectively. The improvement in gross margin was a result of lower freight expenses and improved profitability in our non-public carrier sales. Selling, General and Administrative expenses for the third quarter fiscal year 2019 were up 





 Table of Contents  



0.3% compared to the third quarter fiscal year 2018. The increase is related to increased corporate support expense, information technology expense, and compensation expense, and was offset by a decrease in marketing expense and benefit expense. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased by 72.2% and diluted earnings per share increased by 68.4% compared to the prior-year quarter.  



 Our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and vendors looking to us for product and supply chain solutions depends upon a number of factors. The terms, and accordingly the factors, applicable to each relationship often differ. Among these factors are the strength of the customer’s or vendor’s business, the supply and demand for the product or service, including price stability, changing customer or vendor requirements, and our ability to support the customer or vendor and to continually demonstrate that we can improve the way they do business. In addition, the agreements or arrangements on which our customer and vendor relationships are based are typically of limited duration, typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale and are terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise relatively short notice. Because of the nature of our business, we have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and vendor relationships, and we may continue to be so affected in the future. Our customer relationships could also be affected by wireless carrier consolidation or the overall global economic environment.  



 During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, revenue in our value-added resellers and integrator market experienced a nominal negative effect on account of the U.S. government shutdown which began late in the quarter. We anticipate that our fourth quarter 2019 results will also be negatively affected, and perhaps to greater extent due to the extension of the US government shutdown well into January 2019, and due to the corresponding effect of it and the prospect for future shutdowns on our government and government-dependent customers’ buying decisions. We believe, however, that a substantial portion of this revenue will be delayed until the threat of future shutdowns subsides, and not lost, unless these circumstances persist for an extended period. While this does not account for a significant portion of our revenue, a recurring or prolonged U.S. government shutdown, or threat of shutdown, would have a negative effect on our financial results.  



 The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors. In addition, many manufacturers sell direct. Barriers to entry for distributors are relatively low, particularly in the mobile devices and accessories market, and the risk of new competitors entering the marketplace is high. Consolidation of larger wireless carriers has and will most likely continue to impact our current and potential customer base. Our ability to maintain customer and vendor relationships is subject to competitive pressures and challenges. We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.  





 Table of Contents  



 Results of Operations  



 Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2019 Compared Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018  



 Total Revenues. Revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 4.1% compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Revenues in our public carrier market increased by 47.9%. This growth was primarily driven by our ability to expand market share with Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors. The growth in our public carrier market was partially offset by a 2.1% and 5.4% decline in sales to the retail market and the value-added resellers and integrators market.  



 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 4.7% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Overall gross profit margin increased slightly from 20.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to 20.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. These increases were primarily due to lower freight expenses and to improved profitability within our non-public carrier markets. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carrier market increased by 44.2%. Gross profit in our value-added resellers and integrators market decreased by 0.4%. Within our retail segment, gross profit increased by 0.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 2018.   



 As discussed above under the heading “Business Overview and Environment,” our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and vendors depends upon a number of factors which often differ for each relationship. Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice. We have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and vendor relationships, and we may continue to be so affected in the future.   



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $81,600 for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 18.7% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, to 18.1% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019.  



 Selling, general and administrative expenses were consistent as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, despite the 4.1% increase in sales. There was an increase of $0.5 million in corporate support expense, primarily related to bad debt expenses, an increase of $0.3 million in information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives, and an increase of $0.2 million in compensation and benefits expense, during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018. These increases were offset by the $0.9 million decrease in marketing expense.  



 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $478,400 and $185,300 for the three months ended December 30, 2018 and December 24, 2017, respectively.   



 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $114,500 for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to $247,900 for the third quarter of fiscal 2019. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our secured Revolving Credit Facility (discussed 





 Table of Contents  



in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.   



 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate decreased from 24.2% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to 16.9% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019. The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was lower primarily due to a change in tax law and a reduction in the gross balance of unrecognized tax benefits, including interest, due to a lapse in the related statute of limitations. The annual federal rate has dropped from 35% to 21% due to the Tax Act. Net income increased 72.2% and diluted earnings per share increased 68.4% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.   



 First Nine months of Fiscal Year 2019 Compared with First Nine months of Fiscal Year 2018  



 Total Revenues. Revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased 7.1% compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Within our commercial segment, revenues in our public carrier market increased by 48.1%, largely due to increased spending among Tier 1 carrier and contractors customers, and also due in part to better execution of our selling strategy in this market. The growth was partially offset by a decline in the value-added resellers and integrators market by 2.1%. Retail segment revenue declined by 1.5%, due in part to softer phone launch sales and less retail store traffic.  



 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased by 5.0% compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carrier market and our value-added resellers and integrators market increased by 35.2% and 1.6%, respectively, for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018. This growth in our commercial segment was partially offset by a decrease in our retail segment by 1.0%. Overall gross profit margin decreased from 20.6% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 to 20.2% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019. This decline was primarily caused by a change in customer mix, including the increase in lower margin sales in the public carrier market.   



 As discussed above under the heading “Business Overview and Environment,” our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and vendors depends upon a number of factors which often differ for each relationship. Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice. We have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and vendor relationships, and we may continue to be so affected in the future.   



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $4.0 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 19.0% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, to 18.6% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019.  



 Freight cost and other variable operations costs primarily related to the large carrier and retail customers increased $1.4 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.   



 Information technology expense increased $1.4 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018. We continue to invest in our information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives.  





 Table of Contents  



 Corporate support expense increased by $1.7 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018 primarily related to increase in bad debt expense and new product development.   



 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $1,499,700 and $433,200 for the nine months ended December 30, 2018 and December 24, 2017, respectively. We experienced several atypical bad debt events during fiscal year 2019 thus far, which have resulted in a higher than usual fiscal year 2019 year to date bad debt expense. In addition, our bad debt expense for the same prior year period was unusually low, which affects the comparison.   



 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $339,600 for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 to $667,100 for the first nine months of fiscal 2019. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our secured Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.  



 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate decreased from 36.9% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 to 22.1% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019. The effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was lower primarily due to a change in tax law. The annual federal rate has dropped from 35% to 21% due to the Tax Act. Our provision for income taxes decreased by 38.9% compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018, primarily as a result of reduced tax rate. Net income increased by 25.5% and diluted earnings per share increased 22.9% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.  



 Liquidity and Capital Resources  



 The following table summarizes our cash flows provided by or used in operating, investing and financing activities for the nine months ended December 30, 2018 and December 24, 2017.  





 Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $7.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018. This fiscal 2019 inflow was driven by net income plus depreciation and amortization, and partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable and inventory. Increasing sales to our public carrier customers at times requires significant investments in inventory, and at times results in larger accounts receivable balances. Both current and potential opportunities within our public carrier business have required an increase in working capital investments. As such, on October 19, 2017 we entered into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as discussed below, based upon our then anticipated borrowing and cash needs.  



 Net cash used in investing activities of $4.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was up from 





 Table of Contents  



expenditures of $2.1 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Cash used in both periods was due to capital expenditures largely comprised of investments in information technology.   



 Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.0 million for the first nine months of both fiscal 2019 and 2018. We utilized our asset based secured Revolving Credit Facility during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, leading to a cash inflow of $6.1 million and $6.0 million, respectively, during those periods. During the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, we had cash outflows of $5.1 million and $5.0 million, respectively, due to cash dividends paid to shareholders.   



 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with the Company’s primary lenders. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement for the secured Revolving Credit Facility previously established in June 2016, was amended and restated in order to, among other things, increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million. In addition to expanding the borrowing limit, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement extends the applicable maturity date to October 19, 2021. As of December 30, 2018, we had a $16.9 million balance on the secured Revolving Credit Facility; therefore, we had $58.1 million available, subject to the Borrowing Base limitations and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the financial and other covenants discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  



 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and the other Company affiliate borrowers and subsidiaries, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by the Loan Parties in connection with the secured Revolving Credit Facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising from time to time under the secured Revolving Credit Facility provided for pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.   



 On March 31, 2009, we entered into a term loan with the Baltimore County Economic Development Revolving Loan Fund for an aggregate principal amount of $250,000. The term loan is payable in equal monthly installments of principal and interest of $2,300, with the balance due at maturity on April 1, 2019. The term loan bears interest at 2.00% per annum and is secured by a subordinate position on our Hunt Valley, Maryland facility. At December 30, 2018, the principal balance of this term loan was $9,200.  



 We have made quarterly dividend payments to holders of our common stock since the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Our most recent quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share was paid in November 2018. On January 23, 2019, we declared a quarterly cash dividend in the amount of $0.20 per share, payable on February 27, 2019 to shareholders of record as of February 13, 2019.   



 Any future declaration of dividends and the establishment of any corresponding record and payment dates remains subject to further determination from time to time by the Board of Directors.   



 We believe that our existing cash, payments from customers and availability under our secured Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to support our operations for at least the next twelve months. To minimize interest expense, our policy is to apply excess available cash to reduce the balance outstanding from time to time on our secured Revolving Credit Facility. Our increased focus over the past several quarters on business 





 Table of Contents  





 In addition, our liquidity could be negatively impacted by decreasing revenues and profits resulting from a decrease in demand for our products or a reduction in capital expenditures by our customers, or by the weakened financial conditions of our customers or suppliers, in each case as a result of a downturn in the global economy, among other factors.  



 Recent Accounting Pronouncements   



 A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  



 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   



 Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.   



 For a detailed discussion on our critical accounting policies, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.   



 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   



 We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements.  



 Forward-Looking Statements  



 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may generally be identified by the use of the words “may,” “will,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” and similar expressions, but the absence of these words or phrases does not necessarily mean that a statement is not forward looking. Forward looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those described in or contemplated by any such forward-looking statement for a variety of reasons, including those risks identified in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and other periodic reports filed with the SEC, under the heading “Risk Factors” and otherwise. Consequently, the reader is cautioned to consider all forward-looking statements in light of the risks to which they are subject.  







 Table of Contents  





 Available Information  





 Item 4. Controls and Procedures.  



 The Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Based on the evaluation of these controls and procedures required by Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b) of the Exchange Act, the Company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. During the period covered by this quarterly report, there have been no changes to the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to 





 Table of Contents  



materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.  



 PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  





 Item 1A. Risk Factors.  



 There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018. Nevertheless, information that we have disclosed or will disclose from time to time in our public filings (including this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and other periodic reports filed under the Exchange Act) may provide additional data or information relative to our previously disclosed risk factors. We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.  



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.   



 None.  



