The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Cypress' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2018.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in our consolidated balance sheets.
The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets.
Additionally, the Company has elected the short-term lease exception for all classes of assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable.
The terms and conditions of the subleases are commensurate with the terms and conditions within the original operating leases.
The term of the subleases range from one to eight years, payments are fixed within the contracts, and there are no residual value guarantees or other restrictions or covenants in the leases.
When discount rates implicit in leases cannot be readily determined, the Company uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement to perform lease classification tests on lease components and to measure lease liabilities and ROU assets.
Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
The Company adopted ASC Topic 842, as of December 31, 2018 and applied the alternative modified retrospective transition method requiring application of the new guidance to all leases existing at, or entered into on or after, the date of adoption, i.e. December 31, 2018.
As a result of adoption of this standard, and election of the transition practical expedients, the Company recognized ROU assets and lease liabilities for those leases classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 840 that continued to be classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 842 at the date of initial application.Microcontroller and Connectivity Division  MCD focuses on connectivity and computing solutions for the Internet of Things and automotive solutions that enhance the in-cabin user experience.
The portfolio includes Wi-Fi® and Bluetooth® and Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), and Wi-Fi plus Bluetooth combo solutions; Traveo™ automotive MCUs, PSoC® programmable MCUs and general-purpose MCUs; CapSense® capacitive-sensing controllers and automotive TrueTouch® touchscreen solutions; a broad line of USB controllers, including solutions for the USB-C and USB Power Delivery standards; and analog PMIC Power Management ICs.
Refer to Part I Item 1. Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018 for a discussion of our strategies.Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit.Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful.