PART II - OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 



There have been no material changes to the disclosure regarding the legal proceedings set forth in Part I, Item 3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for a detailed discussion of risk factors that could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results or our financial condition. The risk factors included below are revised from versions included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Legislative changes in applicable tax laws, policies and regulations or unfavorable resolution of tax matters may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.







tax law, policy or regulation changes by federal, state and local and foreign authorities may result in additional tax liabilities which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.



Significant estimation and judgment is required in determining our provisions for taxes in the U.S. and jurisdictions outside the U.S. In the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and although we believe our tax positions are defensible and our tax provision estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. The unfavorable resolution of any audits or litigation could have an adverse impact on future operating results and our financial condition. More aggressive and assertive tax collection policies, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S., may increase the costs of resolving tax issues and enhance the likelihood that we will have increased tax liabilities going forward.



We face risks arising from our ongoing efforts to achieve cost savings.





•actual or perceived disruption of service or reduction in service standards to customers;



•the failure to preserve adequate internal controls as we restructure our general and administrative functions, including our information technology and financial reporting infrastructure;



•the failure to preserve supplier relationships and distribution, sales and other important relationships and to resolve conflicts that may arise;



•loss of sales as we reduce or eliminate staffing on non-core product lines;



•diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities; and



•the failure to maintain employee morale and retain key employees while implementing benefit changes and reductions in the workforce.



Because of these and other factors, we cannot predict whether we will realize the purpose and anticipated benefits of these initiatives and, if we do not, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. 



In fiscal 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure. The project will incorporate our Zero Based Spending and global productivity initiatives, and will include a new global restructuring initiative. The anticipated savings will provide ongoing financial and operational flexibility for reinvestment to reinforce growth and margin improvement objectives. Project Fuel follows on several years of productivity initiatives, as well as the initiatives launched with the overall Separation program. The achievement of our savings targets depends on our ability to successfully identify and realize savings opportunities. Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. If we are unable to realize the anticipated savings our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected.





Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.



The following table sets forth the purchases of the Company's securities by the Company and any affiliated purchasers within the meaning of Rule 10b-18(a)(3) (17 CFR 240.10b-18(a)(3)) during the third quarter of fiscal 2018. 











Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.



None.



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.



Not applicable.



Item 5. Other Information.



None.



Item 6. Exhibits.







SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.





