Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“Forward-Looking Statements”) with respect to the business of the Company.These amounts, if recognized, would reduce the Company’s effective tax rate.
when our product is shipped to a customer-controlled hub) and the point at which the Company can invoice the customer per the terms of the customer contract (i.e.
The Company has operating leases for its facilities used for manufacturing, research and development, sales and administration.
The Company incurred $1.4 million and $1.3 million of interest expense during the three months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively, and $2.8 million and $2.5 million of interest expense during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively.
As of June 30, 2019, the plan owned 133,280 and 107,962 shares of Bel Fuse Inc. Class A and Class B common stock, respectively.
Nonfinancial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets, are accounted for at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
leases with terms of 12 months or less) and an accounting policy to account for lease and non-lease components as a single component for certain classes of assets.
Similar modifications have been made to lessor accounting in-line with revenue recognition guidance.
The sale of the Inwood, New York property was completed during the second quarter of 2019, resulting in net proceeds of $5.8 million.Income from operations declined across all segments during the second quarter of 2019 as compared with the same quarter of 2018 primary due to lower sales volume.
The Company has significant manufacturing operations located in the PRC where labor and overhead costs are paid in local currency.
  ·   purchases of property, plant and equipment of $5.3 million;
Sales of our connector products into military applications were also lower during the second quarter of 2019 compared to the same period of 2018, impacting our North America and European segment sales.
The Credit and Security Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and financial covenants that measure (i) the ratio of the Company's total funded indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, to the amount of the Company’s consolidated EBITDA, as defined (“Leverage Ratio”), and (ii) the ratio of the amount of the Company’s consolidated EBITDA to the Company’s consolidated fixed charges (“Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio”).
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars in the text are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
Inventory decreased by $1.8 million at June 30, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018.