These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
when the customer pulls our product from the customer-controlled hub).
On May 25, 2018, the Court enforced its order and withdrew the damages amount from Dongguan Transpower's bank accounts.
See Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
In the case of our consignment arrangements, we are unable to invoice the customer until product is pulled from the hub by the customer, which generates an unbilled receivable (a contract asset) when revenue is initially recognized.
Changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss by component during the six months ended June 30, 2018 are as follows.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the carrying value of the debt on the condensed consolidated balance sheet is reflected net of $2.0 million and $2.3 million, respectively, of deferred financing costs.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards.
In the case of our consignment arrangements, we are unable to invoice the customer until product is pulled from the hub by the customer, which generates an unbilled receivable (a contract asset) when revenue is initially recognized.
Net Sales – Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for such customer sales.These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries.
Our Power Solutions and Protection backlog grew by 19%, led by higher demand for our power supplies in both traditional data centers and those used for blockchain technology.
  ·   repayments of long-term debt of $15.4 million.
Our Signal Transformer business also contributed with an increase in sales of $1.3 million and $1.6 million during the second quarter and six-month period, as orders from new programs within industrial applications continued to ramp up in the second quarter.
The change in the effective tax rate during the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017, is primarily attributable to a decrease in tax expense in the North America segment due to the reduction in the U.S. tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018, as well as a decrease in the taxes related to uncertain tax positions.
The improvement in income from operations within our North America segment was largely due to higher sales volumes in the 2018 periods, partially offset by increased material costs on purchased components.
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.