fls.txt
Forward-Looking Statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements.


item1.txt
The expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.3 million in both periods.
In April 2018, the 3rd People Court of Dongguan ruled and provided an unfavorable judgment against Dongguan Transpower and two of the other defendants requiring payment of the aforementioned amount.
The expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.3 million in both periods.
In connection with the acquisition of Power Solutions, there is an ongoing claim by the Arezzo Revenue Agency in Italy concerning certain tax matters related to what was then Power-One Asia Pacific Electronics Shenzhen Co. Ltd. (now Bel Power Solutions Asia Pacific Electronics Shenzhen Co. Ltd, or "BPS China") for the years 2004 to 2006.
In certain instances, the Company would generally require a significant cancellation penalty payment by the customer.
On October 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of BCMZ Precision Engineering Limited, a UK manufacturer of precision machined components, for approximately $2.6 million in cash.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company sold its securities and realized a gain on sale of $0.2 million.
An appeal was filed on July 18, 2015 before the Regional Tax Commission of Florence and rejected.
The purchase price allocation was still in progress and was not available at the time of filing of this Quarterly Report.
The majority of the Company's total backlog of orders at September 30, 2018 is related to contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less, for which the Company is electing to utilize the practical expedient available within the guidance, and are excluded from the transaction price related to these future obligations.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company held certain financial assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
The Company paid Setec 75,000 Euro in exchange for a perpetual, worldwide royalty-free license to the patent-in-suit and all its counterparts.
A contract asset results when goods or services have been transferred to the customer but payment is contingent upon a future event, other than passage of time.
However, the Company may permit its customers to return product for other reasons.
For purposes of ASC 606, all such incremental services were concluded to be immaterial in the context of the contracts.
Payment for products sold under direct contracts with customers or contracts with distributors is typically due in full within 30-90 days from the transfer of title to customer.


item2.txt
  ·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first nine months of 2018 increased from 10.4% of sales during the first nine months of 2017 to 11.5% of sales during the first nine months of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar, particularly during the first half of 2018, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products.
We have also had a greater level of focus on our distribution channel in 2018 and our Stewart products have benefited from the increased exposure through our distribution base.
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.
Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead.
Effective February 1, 2018, the PRC government issued an increase to the minimum wage in a region where one of Bel's factories is located.
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
The Credit and Security Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and financial covenants that measure (i) the ratio of the Company's total funded indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, to the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA, as defined ("Leverage Ratio"), and (ii) the ratio of the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA to the Company's consolidated fixed charges ("Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio").
Inventory levels were up by $3.3 million at September 30, 2017 compared to December 31, 2016 as work in progress and finished goods balances increased from year-end levels to accommodate the increase in demand for our products in 2017.
The Credit and Security Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and financial covenants that measure (i) the ratio of the Company's total funded indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, to the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA, as defined ("Leverage Ratio"), and (ii) the ratio of the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA to the Company's consolidated fixed charges ("Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio").
As previously disclosed, on August 16, 2018, the trustees of the Employees' Savings Plan adopted a plan (the "10b5-1 Plan") in accordance with guidelines specified by Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, pursuant to which KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. was engaged to purchase shares of the Class A common stock of Bel Fuse Inc. ("Bel") to implement the Employees' Savings Plan's requirements that matching contributions be invested in shares of Bel's Class A common stock.
Days sales outstanding (DSO) increased to 60 days at September 30, 2017 from 54 days at December 31, 2016, primary due the extension of credit terms with one of our large customers, as well as the increase in revenue (and resulting accounts receivable balance) in our Asia segment where DSO tends to be higher as compared to our other geographic segments.


item3.txt
This compares to foreign exchange losses recorded during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 of $0.6 million and $2.7 million, respectively, resulting from remeasurement of foreign currency transactions.


part2.txt
The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 12 of the Company's Financial Statements, under "Legal Proceedings", as set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


