In February 2013, the Arezzo Revenue Agency filed an appeal of the Tax Court's ruling.
These amounts, if recognized, would reduce the Company's effective tax rate.
In the case of our consignment arrangements, we are unable to invoice the customer until product is pulled from the hub by the customer, which generates an unbilled receivable (a contract asset) when revenue is initially recognized.
In connection with the acquisition of Power Solutions, there is an ongoing claim by the Arezzo Revenue Agency in Italy concerning certain tax matters related to what was then Power-One Asia Pacific Electronics Shenzhen Co. Ltd. (now Bel Power Solutions Asia Pacific Electronics Shenzhen Co. Ltd, or "BPS China") for the years 2004 to 2006.
The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations that have not been satisfied as of March 31, 2018 related to contracts that exceed one year in duration amounted to $17.4 million, with expected contract expiration dates that range from 2019 - 2024.
Net Sales – Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for such customer sales.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act") was enacted on December 22, 2017.
The Company will generally satisfy the remaining performance obligations as we transfer control of the products ordered to our customers.
See Note 11, "Accrued Expenses."
The CSA contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and financial covenants that measure (i) the ratio of the Company's total funded indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, to the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA, as defined, ("Leverage Ratio") and (ii) the ratio of the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA to the Company's consolidated fixed charges.  ·   purchases of property, plant and equipment of $1.0 million; and
Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the PRC.
Management has current intentions to repatriate approximately $6 million of funds from outside of the U.S., with a minimal incremental tax liability, with the intent of reducing our outstanding debt balance.
The maximum dollar amount for cumulative purchases under the 10b5-1 Plan during the plan period (March 15, 2018 to July 31, 2018) will not exceed $650,000.
  ·   Impact of Foreign Currency – During the first quarter of 2018, the Company incurred foreign exchange translation losses of $1.0 million and an estimated $1.8 million of transactional foreign exchange losses.
Net sales and income from operations by operating segment for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows.
Our Stewart business added to the growth within this group in 2018, contributing $0.5 million of additional sales in 2018 versus the 2017 period as it was successful in expanding the presence of its products within distribution channels.