Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) provides a historical and prospective narrative on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.In October 2015, Corning announced a strategy and capital allocation framework (the “Framework”) that reflects the Company’s financial and operational strengths, as well as its ongoing commitment to increasing shareholder value.
Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to sustain our leadership positions and deliver growth.
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
Net sales in the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $2,500 million, compared to $2,375 million in the same period in 2017.
The increase was driven by higher sales in the Optical Communications, Environmental Technologies and Life Sciences segments, up $68 million, $47 million and $22 million, respectively.
The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated net loss in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.
We believe 2018 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework, and anticipate that segment net sales will grow to approximately $11 billion.
We anticipate Corning’s LCD glass volume will grow faster than the expected LCD glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
In the Optical Communications segment, we expect sales to increase by about 10%, excluding any contribution from the pending acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division, driven by strong demand from carrier and enterprise network customers, supported by our planned capacity additions.
We expect sales growth of approximately 10% in our Environmental Technologies segment, driven by continued strength in automotive product sales, on-going improvements in the heavy-duty diesel market and from the commercial launch of gas-particulate filters.
·    An increase of $22 million in the Life Sciences segment, driven by higher sales in North America and China.
Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $87 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
·    An increase of $18 million in corporate spending primarily related to new information technology platforms and outside legal fees.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly in the first quarter, when compared to the same period last year.
Equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $41 million, driven largely by the absence of a $46 million gain recorded in the first quarter of 2017 resulting from the modification of long-term sales agreements with a customer of HSG.
The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated loss before income taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.