Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) provides a historical and prospective narrative on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.See our 2018 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to extend our leadership positions and deliver growth.
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $2.8 billion, compared to $2.5 billion in the same period in 2018.
The increase was led by the Optical Communications segment, which increased $178 million, due to higher sales of carrier network products in North America, an increase in sales of enterprise network products from growth in hyper-scale data centers and sales from our acquisition of 3M’s Communication Markets Division (“CMD”).
Net sales for Environmental Technologies increased $40 million driven primarily by sales growth of gas particulate filters.
·    Higher segment net income in all our business segments and All Other segment, up $68 million.
Diluted earnings per share increased by $1.27 per share when compared to the first quarter of 2018, driven by the increase in net income described above, coupled with the repurchase of 55.5 million shares of common stock over the last twelve months.
We believe 2019 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework.
We anticipate Corning’s display glass volume will grow faster than the expected display glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by television screen size growth and the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
We expect growth in the Specialty Materials segment, the rate of which will depend on the adoption of our innovations.
We anticipate low to mid-single digit percentage growth in sales for the Life Sciences segment.
·    An increase of $11 million in the Life Sciences segment, driven by higher sales in all product categories.
Movements in foreign exchange rates increased Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $25 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the prior year.
In the three months ended March 31, 2019, gross margin increased by $144 million, or 15% primarily driven by an increase in sales across all operating segments.
·    An increase of $25 million in the Optical Communications segment, driven largely by the acquisition of CMD in June 2018.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses decreased by 1% when compared to the same period last year.See our 2018 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.