Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the specified time periods, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Our management, with the participation of our CEO and CFO, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of December 31, 2018.
Based on that evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that, as of that date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 that have materially affected, or are likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Item 5.
Other Information.
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation

On February 6, 2019, Edgewell Personal Care (the "Company") borrowed $185 under the Revolving Facility to fund the repayment and retirement of our $185 Term Loan due April 2019.
Refer to Note 17 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
The Company regularly draws and repays the Revolving Facility.
As of February 6, 2019, the Company has approximately $468 available to draw on the Revolving Facility.
The Revolving Facility is governed by the terms of Amendment No.
3 to Our Credit Agreement dated June 1, 2015, as amended, by and among Edgewell Personal Care Company, as borrower, Edgewell Personal Care Brands, LLC, as subsidiary borrower, certain other subsidiaries of Edgewell Personal Care Company, as subsidiary guarantors, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the various lenders who are a party thereto as filed on Form 8-K with the SEC on March 15, 2017, with an amendment filed with the SEC on Form 8-K on June 1, 2015.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
