Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the specified time periods, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and Chief Financial Officer ("CFO"), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Our management, with the participation of our CEO and CFO, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of March 31, 2018.
Based on that evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that, as of that date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 that have materially affected, or are likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings.
We, and our affiliates, are subject to a number of legal proceedings in various jurisdictions arising out of our operations during the ordinary course of business.
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.
The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty.
We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions.
We establish accruals for those contingencies when the incurrence of a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated, and disclose the amount accrued and the amount of a reasonably possible loss in excess of the amount accrued, if such disclosure is necessary for our financial statements to not be misleading.
We do not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.
Based upon present information, we believe that our liability, if any, arising from such pending legal proceedings, asserted legal claims and known potential legal claims, which are likely to be asserted, is not reasonably likely to be material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, taking into account established accruals for estimated liabilities.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Refer to Item 1A.
Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for a detailed discussion of risk factors that could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results or our financial condition.
The risk factors included below are revised from versions included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Legislative changes in applicable tax laws, policies and regulations or unfavorable resolution of tax matters may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.
Significant estimation and judgment is required in determining our provisions for taxes in the U.S. and jurisdictions outside the U.S.
In the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
We are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and although we believe our tax positions are defensible and our tax provision estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals.
The unfavorable resolution of any audits or litigation could have an adverse impact on future operating results and our financial condition.
More aggressive and assertive tax collection policies, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S., may increase the costs of resolving tax issues and enhance the likelihood that we will have increased tax liabilities going forward.
We face risks arising from our ongoing efforts to achieve cost savings.
•actual or perceived disruption of service or reduction in service standards to customers;

•the failure to preserve adequate internal controls as we restructure our general and administrative functions, including our information technology and financial reporting infrastructure;

•the failure to preserve supplier relationships and distribution, sales and other important relationships and to resolve conflicts that may arise;

•loss of sales as we reduce or eliminate staffing on non-core product lines;

•diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities; and

•the failure to maintain employee morale and retain key employees while implementing benefit changes and reductions in the workforce.
Because of these and other factors, we cannot predict whether we will realize the purpose and anticipated benefits of these initiatives and, if we do not, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.
In fiscal 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure.
The project will incorporate our Zero Based Spending and global productivity initiatives, and will include a new global restructuring initiative.
The anticipated savings will provide ongoing financial and operational flexibility for reinvestment to reinforce growth and margin improvement objectives.
Project Fuel follows on several years of productivity initiatives, as well as the initiatives launched with the overall Separation program.
The achievement of our savings targets depends on our ability to successfully identify and realize savings opportunities.
Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable.
If we are unable to realize the anticipated savings our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The following table sets forth the purchases of the Company's securities by the Company and any affiliated purchasers within the meaning of Rule 10b-18(a)(3) (17 CFR 240.10b-18(a)(3)) during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
