Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs and involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions.
Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within “Forward-Looking Statements” below and in Item 1A.
Risk Factors and “Forward-Looking Statements” included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures

While we report financial results in accordance with GAAP, this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as “adjusted” or “organic” and exclude items such as restructuring charges, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, the Jack Black, L.L.C.
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures are included within this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions, and dispositions (including the acquisition of Jack Black and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business).
This information is provided because these types of fluctuations can distort the underlying change in net sales and segment profit either positively or negatively.
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act.
•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.
•Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities less net capital expenditures.
Free cash flow conversion is defined as free cash flow as a percentage of net earnings adjusted for the net impact of non-cash impairments.
All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
Industry and Market Data

Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry.
Our market position, market share, and industry market size are based on our estimates using internal data and data from various industry analyses, our internal research and adjustments, and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable.
We have not independently verified data from industry analyses and cannot guarantee accuracy or completeness.
In addition, we believe that data regarding the industry, market size and our market position and market share within such industry provide general guidance but are inherently imprecise.
Further, our estimates and assumptions involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed in the “Risk Factors” section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 18.
2019.
These, and other factors, could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in the estimates and assumptions.
Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in U.S. dollars.
Trademarks and Trade Names

We own or have rights to use trademarks and trade names that we use in conjunction with the operation of our business, which appear throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
Forward-Looking Statements

This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You should not place undue reliance on these statements.
Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of words or phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “expectation,” “anticipate,” “may,” “could,” “intend,” “belief,” “estimate,” “plan,” “target,” “predict,” “likely,” “will,” “should,” “forecast,” “outlook,” or other similar words or phrases.
These statements are not based on historical facts, but instead reflect our expectations, estimates, or projections concerning future results or events, including, without limitation, the future earnings and performance of Edgewell Personal Care Company (“Edgewell”, “we” or “our Company”) or any of our businesses.
These statements are not guarantees of performance and are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by those statements.
We cannot assure you that any of our expectations, estimates or projections will be achieved.
The forward-looking statements included in this report are only made as of the date of this report, and we disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could significantly affect the forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty.
Risks and uncertainties include those detailed from time to time in our publicly filed documents, including in Item 1A.
Risk Factors of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
Significant Events

Project Fuel

In February 2018, we announced Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure and key processes that will enable us to achieve our desired future state operations.
The project will incorporate our Zero-Based Spending (“ZBS”) and global productivity initiatives and will include a new global restructuring initiative.
Initial costs for Project Fuel relate to efforts to fully define the scope and reach of the project.
In addition, the Company has incurred global severance costs related to the reduction of overhead.
While the Company incurred costs and realized savings for Project Fuel in fiscal 2018, most costs will be incurred and savings will be achieved during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.
For further information on our restructuring projects, refer to Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Sun Care Reformulation Costs



Acquisitions

On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men’s skincare products company, for approximately $90.2, net of cash acquired.
The acquisition will create opportunities to expand our personal care portfolio in growing categories in the U.S. and globally, while nurturing the brand equity of Jack Black.
The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within our results since the acquisition date.
Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the acquisition of Jack Black.
Sale of Playtex Gloves Business

On October 26, 2017, the Company finalized its sale of the Playtex gloves business to a household products company (the “Acquirer”) for $19.0.
The sale was finalized on October 26, 2017.
The sale provides the Acquirer with indefinite and exclusive worldwide rights to the Playtex trademark for gloves.
The strategic sale of the Playtex gloves business will allow the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines.
Total assets sold were $3.1, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The gain on sale of Playtex gloves recognized for fiscal year 2018 was $15.3.
Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the sale of the Playtex gloves business.
Executive Summary 

The following is a summary of key results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Net earnings and earnings per share (“EPS”) for the time periods presented were impacted by restructuring activities, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax impact from those costs, and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
The impact of these items on reported net earnings and EPS are provided as a reconciliation of net earnings and EPS to adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS, both of which are Non-GAAP measures.
Operating Results 

The following table presents changes in net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
Net Sales


For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, net sales were $457.1, a 2.4% decrease when compared with the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Jack Black, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 3.5% versus the prior year period, as overall volumes decreased primarily in North America and Latin America offset by growth in Europe and Asia Pacific.
Feminine Care had declines in volumes across all brands of tampons and pads.
All Other was impacted by lower volumes as refill sales were down and unfavorable price mix.
Wet Shave was impacted by unfavorable price mix in the quarter.
For further discussion regarding net sales, including a summary of reported versus organic changes, see “Segment Results.”

Gross Profit 

Gross profit was $193.5 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as compared to $199.3 in the prior year period.
Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was 42.3%, representing a 30 basis point decline over the prior year gross margin of 42.6%.
Excluding $0.1 of costs associated with the Sun Care Reformulation, gross margin decreased 20 basis points to 42.4%.
The impact of lower volumes across all segments (70 basis points) and unfavorable price mix in Wet Shave, Infant Care, and Feminine Care (40 basis points) was mostly offset by favorable cost mix (60 basis points) driven by lower operational spending.
Selling, General and Administrative Expense


Advertising and Sales Promotion Expense


Research and Development Expense


Interest Expense Associated with Debt

Interest expense associated with debt for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $16.0, a decrease from the prior year period of $17.8.
The decline in interest expense was the result of lower outstanding debt under the U.S. revolving credit facility in fiscal 2019.
Other Expense


Income Tax Provision

The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was 105.7% compared to 79.8% in the prior year period.
The effective tax rate for the current period includes a $4.7 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act.
The rate was also unfavorably impacted by $18.5 of restructuring and other related costs in lower tax rate jurisdictions and unfavorable tax adjustments, including the share-based payment guidance.
The effective tax rate for the prior period includes a $16.2 increase in tax expense related to net charges from the Tax Act.
In addition, the lower U.S. Federal tax rate was more than offset by unfavorable tax adjustments related to stock compensation and prior year provision estimates, yielding a combined increase of 5% to the effective tax rate.
Excluding the tax impact of restructuring charges, investor settlement expenses, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the impact of the Tax Act, and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the adjusted effective tax rate was 26.6% and 34.1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively.
The adjusted effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 is expected to be in the range of 23.5% to 25.5%; however, both the effective tax rate and the adjusted effective tax rate are dependent upon the mix of earnings in various tax jurisdictions.
Savings Initiatives

Project Fuel is an enterprise-wide transformational initiative, launched in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure and key processes that will enable us to achieve its desired future state operations.
We expect Project Fuel will generate $225 to $240 in total annual gross savings by the end of the 2021 fiscal year.
It is expected that the savings generated will be used to fuel investments and brand building in strategic growth initiatives, offset anticipated operational headwinds from inflation and other rising input costs, and improve our overall profitability and cash flow.
To implement the restructuring element of Project Fuel, we estimate one-time pre-tax charges to be approximately $130 to $140, with an additional capital investment of $60 to $70 through the end of fiscal year 2021.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019 Project Fuel related restructuring charges and capital expenditures were $18.5 and $5.3, respectively.
First quarter Project Fuel related savings were $24.8, bringing cumulative savings to $40.2.
For further information on our restructuring projects, refer to Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Segment Results

The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts.
For a reconciliation of segment profit to Earnings before income taxes, refer to Note 15 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Wet Shave


Wet Shave net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 2.2%, inclusive of a 1.6% decline due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $1.9, or 0.6%, reflecting the impact of lower volumes and pricing in North America partly offset by strong sales and volume growth in International markets.
By region, North America organic net sales declined 7% and International markets increased 5.5%.
International sales growth was led by the Asia Pacific region, driven by volume growth of Schick Hydro Sense® and Intuition f.a.b.™ as well as strong performance in the eCommerce channel.
European sales also increased driven by strong private label distribution in Men's systems.
North America sales declined 7% driven by the impact of lower pricing and distribution losses related to the intense competitive environment.
Sun and Skin Care

Sun and Skin Care segment net sales and segment profit are affected by the seasonality of sun care products.
As a result, segment net sales and segment profit historically have been higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 12.9%, inclusive of a 20.0% increase due to the acquisition of Jack Black, partially offset by a 1.7% decline from the disposition of the Playtex gloves business and a 1.5% decline due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of the Jack Black acquisition, sale of the Playtex gloves business, and currency movements, organic net sales decreased $2.3, or 3.9%, primarily driven by sales declines in key Asia Pacific and Latin American markets that were impacted by supply constraints related to the Sun Care reformulation project announced in the prior quarter.
Sales in North America increased due to favorable Sun Care price mix and volume growth in Bulldog.
Globally, Bulldog sales increased nearly 27% with growth coming from both International and North American markets.
Feminine Care


Feminine Care net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased $7.9, or 9.6%, inclusive of a 0.3% decline due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 9.3%, driven by volume declines in all lines, except for Sport Tampons, where increased promotional support helped drive higher volumes in the quarter.
All Other


All Other net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 13.8%, inclusive of a 0.6% decline from the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales declined 13.2% compared to the prior year quarter driven by lower Diaper Genie sales and the impact of the Toys "R" Us liquidation.
All Other segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $1.2, a decrease of $5.9, or 83.1% driven by the impact of lower product volumes and unfavorable product mix and pricing.
General Corporate and Other Expenses



For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, general corporate expenses were $13.7, or 3.0% of net sales, compared to $18.7, or 4.0% of net sales, in the prior year quarter.
The decline in corporate expense relates to prior year severance payouts and reductions in other salary and benefit payments.
Liquidity and Capital Resources

At December 31, 2018, substantially all our cash balances were located outside the U.S.
Given our extensive international operations, a significant portion of our cash is denominated in foreign currencies.
We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed.
We generally repatriate a portion of current year earnings from select non-U.S. subsidiaries only if the economic cost of the repatriation is not considered material.
The counterparties to deposits consist of several major financial institutions.
We consistently monitor positions with, and credit ratings of, counterparties both internally and by using outside ratings agencies.
Our total borrowings were $1,334.1 at December 31, 2018, including $224.0 tied to variable interest rates.
Our total borrowings at September 30, 2018 were $1,300.2.
As of December 31, 2018, we had outstanding borrowings of $39.0 under our unsecured revolving credit facility in the U.S. (the “Revolving Facility”) and $8.6 of outstanding letters of credit.
Taking into account outstanding borrowings and outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2018, $677.4 remains available under the Revolving Facility.
At September 30, 2018, we had outstanding borrowings of $7.0 under the Revolving Facility.
As of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, we had approximately $185.0 outstanding under the Term Loan.
The Term Loan was retired on February 6, 2019 as a result of a $185.0 prepayment funded through a drawdown on the Revolving Facility.
We had outstanding international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $10.1 and $8.2 as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
The expected minimum required contribution to our pension plans in fiscal 2019 is $7.3; however, discretionary contributions may also be made.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019 we contributed $1.2 to our pension plans.
As of December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with the provisions and covenants associated with our debt agreements.
Cash Flows



Operating Activities

Cash flow used by operating activities was $46.4 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $24.1 during the same period in the prior year.
Due to the seasonality of our Company’s business, primarily in Sun Care, the first fiscal quarter is typically the lowest operating cash flow quarter of the year.
The decline in operating cash flow in the current quarter was primarily driven by the build of inventory for the upcoming Sun Care season in North America, the processing of returns related to the fiscal 2018 season, and the timing of payments.
These decreases were offset by reduced accounts receivable as additional receivables were sold in the quarter from our $150 uncommitted master accounts receivable purchase agreement entered into on September 15, 2017 with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the purchaser.
We expect that fiscal 2019 free cash flow will be above 100% of GAAP net earnings.
Investing Activities

Cash flow used by investing activities was $2.9 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to cash from investing activities of $11.2 during the same period in the prior year.
The change was primarily due to the sale of the Playtex gloves business in fiscal 2018 for $19.0, partially offset by reduced capital expenditures of $9.4 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to $11.6 during the same period in the prior year.
Additionally, investing cash inflows of $2.5 and $1.7 were reclassified from operating activities as a result of collections on the deferred purchase price of accounts receivables sold.
Financing Activities

Net cash from financing activities was $24.5 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to net cash from financing activities of $35.9 during the same period in the prior year.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we had $32.0 of additional borrowings under the Revolving Facility, offset by employee shares withheld for taxes and short-term debt.
In the prior year period, we drew $153.0 under the Revolving Facility which was offset by share repurchases of $115.2.
Share Repurchases

During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we did not repurchase any common stock.
We have 10.0 common shares available for repurchase in the future under the Board’s authorization to repurchase our common shares.
Any future share repurchases may be made in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, in such amounts and at such times as we deem appropriate based upon prevailing market conditions, business needs and other factors.
Commitments and Contingencies

Contractual Obligations


There have been no other material changes in our contractual obligations since the presentation in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
