Item 2.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.
The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within "Forward-Looking Statements" below, and in Item 1A.
Risk Factors and "Forward-Looking Statements" included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as "adjusted" or "organic" and exclude items such as the disposition of Playtex gloves business, the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), the acquisition of Bulldog Skincare Holdings Limited ("Bulldog"), restructuring charges and amortization of intangibles.
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures are included within this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions and dispositions (including the disposition of the gloves business and acquisition of Bulldog).
This information is provided because these types of fluctuations can distort the underlying change in net sales and segment profit either positively or negatively.
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as the gain on the disposition of the gloves business, restructuring charges, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act.
•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as the gain on the disposition of the gloves business, restructuring charges, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.
All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
Industry and Market Data.
Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry.
Our market position, market share and industry market size is based on our estimates using internal data and data from various industry analyses, our internal research and adjustments and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable.
We have not independently verified data from industry analyses and cannot guarantee accuracy or completeness.
In addition, we believe that data regarding the industry, market size and our market position and market share within such industry provide general guidance but are inherently imprecise.
Further, our estimates and assumptions involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed in the "Risk Factors" section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
These and other factors could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in the estimates and assumptions.
Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in United States ("U.S.") dollars.
Trademarks and Trade Names.
We own or have rights to use trademarks and trade names that we use in conjunction with the operation of our business, which appear throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
Forward-Looking Statements.
This document contains both historical and forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts, but instead reflect our expectations, estimates or projections concerning future results or events, including, without limitation, the future earnings and performance of Edgewell Personal Care Company or any of our businesses.
These statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "expectation," "anticipate," "may," "could," "intend," "belief," "estimate," "plan," "target," "predict," "likely," "will," "should," "forecast," "outlook," or other similar words or phrases.
These statements are not guarantees of performance and are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by those statements.
We cannot assure you that any of our expectations, estimates or projections will be achieved.
The forward-looking statements included in this document are only made as of the date of this document, and we disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Numerous factors could cause our actual results and events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements, including, without limitation:

•We face risks associated with global economic conditions.
•Competition in our industries may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, achieve profitability, or maintain relationships with existing customers.
•Loss of any of our principal customers could significantly decrease our sales and profitability.
•Our inability to execute a successful e-commerce strategy could have a significant impact on our business.
•Changes in production costs, including raw material prices, could erode our profit margins and negatively impact operating results.
•Loss of reputation of our leading brands or failure of our marketing plans could have an adverse effect on our business.
•We are subject to risks related to our international operations, including currency fluctuations, which could adversely affect our results of operations.
•We face risks arising from our ongoing efforts to achieve cost savings.
•If we cannot continue to develop new products in a timely manner, and at favorable margins, we may not be able to compete effectively.
•We may not be able to continue to identify and complete strategic acquisitions and effectively integrate acquired companies to achieve desired financial benefits.
•A failure of a key information technology system or a breach of our information security could adversely impact our ability to conduct business.
•Our business is subject to increasing global regulation, including product related regulations and environmental regulations, that may expose us to significant liabilities.
•Our access to capital markets and borrowing capacity could be limited.
•Impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets would result in a reduction in net income.
•Legislative changes in applicable tax laws, policies and regulations or unfavorable resolution of tax matters may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.
•Our manufacturing facilities, supply channels or other business operations may be subject to disruption from events beyond our control.
•We have a substantial level of indebtedness and are subject to various covenants relating to such indebtedness, which could limit our discretion to operate and grow our business.
•Our business is subject to seasonal volatility.
•There can be no guarantee that we will repurchase stock.
•We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.
•If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products, which could adversely affect our market share and results of operations.
•Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union.
•Our business involves the potential for product liability and other claims against us, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition and result in product recalls or withdrawals.
•Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of stockholder activism or an unsolicited takeover proposal or a proxy contest.
•We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel.
•We may experience losses or be subject to increased funding and expenses related to our pension plans.
•Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and of Missouri law, could deter or delay a third-party's effort to acquire us, especially if the Board determines it is not in the best interest of our shareholders.
•The trading price of our common shares may be volatile.
•Our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved had the Separation taken place before July 1, 2015, and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.
•If the Separation, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our shareholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities.
•Indemnifications under the Separation agreement with New Energizer or New Energizer’s inability to satisfy indemnification obligations in the future could negatively impact our financial results.
In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could significantly affect the accuracy of any such forward-looking statements.
The list of factors above is illustrative, but not exhaustive.
All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty.
Additional risks and uncertainties include those detailed from time to time in our publicly filed documents, including in Item 1A.
Risk Factors of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Overview

Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories.
We have a portfolio of over 25 brands and a broad global footprint that operates in more than 50 countries.
•Wet Shave consists of products sold under the Schick®, Wilkinson Sword®, Edge®, Skintimate®, Shave Guard and Personna® brands, as well as non-branded products.
Our wet shave products include razor handles and refillable blades, disposable shave products and shaving gels and creams.
•Sun and Skin Care consists of Banana Boat® and Hawaiian Tropic® sun care products, Bulldog® men's skin care products, Wet Ones® wipes and Playtex® household gloves until the sale of the gloves business in October 2017.
Refer to Note 2 for additional details on the sale of the Playtex household gloves business.
•Feminine Care includes tampons, pads and liners sold under the Playtex® Gentle Glide® and Sport®, Stayfree®, Carefree® and o.b.® brands, as well as personal cleansing wipes under the Playtex® brand.
•All Other includes infant care products, such as bottles, cups and pacifiers, under the Playtex®, OrthoPro® and Binky® brand names, as well as the Diaper Genie® and Litter Genie® disposal systems.
The personal care product categories are highly competitive, both in the U.S. and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space.
Competition is based upon brand perception, product performance, customer service and price.
The markets are generally characterized by the frequent introduction of new products, accompanied by major advertising and promotional programs.
Our priority is to deliver our strategic objectives, focusing on maximizing sales and profit growth through innovation, product line extensions and share gains, as well as improving working capital management.
Significant Events

Sale of Playtex Gloves Business

On October 26, 2017, the Company finalized its sale of the Playtex® gloves business to a household products company (the “Acquirer”) for $19.0.
The sale was finalized on October 26, 2017.
The sale provides the Acquirer with indefinite and exclusive worldwide rights to the Playtex trademark for gloves.
The strategic sale of the Playtex gloves business will allow the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines.
Total assets sold were $3.1, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9.
Acquisition of Bulldog

On October 31, 2016, we completed the acquisition of Bulldog, a men's grooming and skincare products company based in the United Kingdom (the "U.K.") for $34.0, net of cash acquired.
The acquisition created opportunities to expand our personal care portfolio into a growing global category where we can leverage our international geographic footprint.
The acquisition was financed through available foreign cash.
The results of Bulldog for the post-acquisition period are included within our results for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
Changes in Executive Management Team

On December 12, 2017, we announced the departure of Sandy Sheldon, Chief Financial Officer.
We have begun the process to identify and select a permanent CFO, and have retained a nationally recognized executive search firm to facilitate the process.
Executive Summary 

Following is a summary of key results for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2017.
Net earnings and earnings per share ("EPS") for the time periods presented were impacted by the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, restructuring activities, the related tax impact from those costs and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
The impact of these items on reported net earnings and EPS are provided as a reconciliation of net earnings and EPS to adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS, which are Non-GAAP measures.
Operating Results 

The following table presents changes in net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
Net Sales


For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, net sales were $468.3, a 3.4% decrease when compared with the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Bulldog, the sale of the Playtex gloves business and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 5.2% versus the prior year period, as overall volumes decreased primarily in North America Wet Shave and Feminine Care.
Wet Shave was impacted by unfavorable price mix in the quarter.
Sun and Skin Care organic net sales grew 2.6% in the quarter while organic net sales in All Other was flat.
We expect net sales for the full year to be flat to up 1% compared to the prior year, including a currency benefit of approximately 2%, that is partially offset by a 0.5% decline from the Playtex gloves divestiture, net of acquisitions.
Organic net sales for the year are expected to decrease approximately 1%.
Wet Shave organic net sales are expected to be relatively flat assuming continued category declines and softening international category trends.
Innovation launches by the Company across the Wet Shave segment are expected to grow share in this decelerating environment in addition to expected gains in e-commerce distribution and share.
In Sun and Skin Care, organic net sales are expected to grow in the mid to low single digits through product innovation, market expansion and distribution gains, including organic growth in Bulldog.
In Feminine Care, sales declines are expected to continue for the majority of fiscal 2018 as a result of distribution losses and competitive pressures.
For further discussion regarding net sales, including a summary of reported versus organic changes, see "Segment Results."
Gross Profit 

Gross profit was $200.3 during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to $228.0 in the prior year period.
Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was 42.8%, representing a 420 basis point decline over the prior year 


gross margin of 47.0%.
The gross profit decline was driven by lower sales volumes and unfavorable product mix, higher promotional activity in Wet Shave and Sun and Skin Care, and increased product costs.
Higher product costs were primarily driven by lower production volumes in both Feminine Care and Sun and Skin Care manufacturing compared to the prior year, increased costs related to Wet Shave footprint changes, higher commodity costs, and an unfavorable impact from transactional currency.
Selling, General and Administrative Expense

Selling, general and administrative expense was $97.2 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, or 20.8% of net sales, as compared to $93.8 in the prior year period, or 19.3% of net sales.
The increase in expenses relates to investments in e-commerce, executive severance, and expense related to one of our Zero Based Spending ("ZBS') initiatives that will yield savings going forward.
Amortization expense also increased from the conversion of the Playtex and Edge brand names to definite lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.
Advertising and Sales Promotion Expense


Research and Development Expense


Interest Expense Associated with Debt

Interest expense associated with debt for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $17.8, an increase from the prior year period of $17.4.
The increase in interest expense was the result of higher average debt outstanding under the U.S. credit facility driven by borrowings to finance share repurchase activity in the current year.
Other (Income) Expense, Net

Other (income) expense, net was $3.0 of expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to $1.9 of income in the prior year period, reflecting the impact of foreign currency exchange contract gains and losses and the revaluation of nonfunctional currency balance sheet exposures.
Income Tax Provision

The effective tax rate for the first quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017 was 79.8% and 25.4%, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the current period includes a $16.2 increase in tax expense related to net charges from the Tax Act.
In addition the lower U.S. Federal tax rate was more than offset by unfavorable tax adjustments related to stock compensation and prior year provision estimates, yielding a combined increase of 5% to the effective tax rate.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 includes favorable adjustments related to prior year provision estimates, which reduced the effective rate by approximately 4%.
Excluding the gain on sale of the Playtex gloves business, net tax expense from the Tax Act and costs related to restructuring charges, the adjusted effective tax rate was 34.1% and 26.3% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The adjusted effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 is expected to be in the range of 22% to 24%; however, both the effective tax rate and the adjusted effective tax rate are dependent upon the mix of earnings in various tax jurisdictions.
Savings Initiatives

Our ZBS initiative was established to capture savings and establish cost-conscious spending policies consistent with our strategic needs.
Net cost savings from our ZBS initiative is anticipated to be between $25 to $30 in fiscal 2018, which will principally fund investments in core and growth initiatives and increased marketing spend.
In addition, we have launched an expansion of our ZBS initiative to assess our organizational and operational cost structure in order to continue to drive incremental savings and accelerate shift to growth opportunities.
Segment Results

Segment performance is evaluated based on segment profit, exclusive of general corporate expenses, share-based compensation costs, costs associated with restructuring initiatives and the amortization of intangible assets.
Financial items, such as interest income and expense, are managed on a global basis at the corporate level.
The exclusion of such charges from segment results reflects management's view on how it evaluates segment performance.
Our operating model includes some shared business functions across the segments, including product warehousing and distribution, transaction processing functions and, in most cases, a combined sales force and management teams.
We apply a fully allocated cost basis, in which shared business functions are allocated between the segments.
Such allocations are estimates, and do not represent the costs of such services if performed on a stand-alone basis.
The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts.
For a reconciliation of segment profit to Earnings before income taxes, see Note 15 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Wet Shave


Wet Shave net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased 4.0%, inclusive of a 2.4% increase due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $19.7, or 6.4%, as a result of lower volumes.
The volume decline in North America Men's systems reflects the impact of distribution losses in the current quarter, compared to strong performance a year ago, when Men's systems organic net sales grew 28%.
Women's systems were essentially flat globally, but delivered 2% growth in North America.
International Wet Shave organic net sales declined 2% in the quarter, driven by lower volumes in Europe and unfavorable price mix in Asia.
Wet Shave segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $54.7, down $17.3 or 24.0%, inclusive of the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased $19.0, or 26.4%, driven by lower volumes, unfavorable product mix, higher promotional spending, costs associated with manufacturing footprint efforts, higher commodity costs, and unfavorable transactional currency.
Sun and Skin Care

Sun and Skin Care segment net sales and segment profit are affected by the seasonality of sun care products.
As a result, segment net sales and segment profit tend to be higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 2.6%, inclusive of a 4.0% increase due to the acquisition of Bulldog and a 1.6% increase due to currency movements, offset by a 5.6% decline from the disposition of the Playtex gloves business.
Excluding the impact of the Bulldog acquisition, sale of the Playtex gloves business and currency movements, organic net sales increased $1.5, or 2.6%, driven by growth in North America of nearly 7% from increased volumes from Banana Boat and Bulldog, offset by higher promotional spending.
International organic net sales decreased 2%, primarily driven by volume declines and increased promotional spending in Asia.
Segment loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $6.1, a decrease of $6.9 or 862.5%, inclusive of the impact of the acquisition of Bulldog, sale of the Playtex gloves business and currency movements.
Excluding the impact of the Bulldog acquisition and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, organic segment profit decreased $4.6, or 575.0%, driven by increased promotional support to close the sun care season and higher product costs in the current year compared to a year ago, when production volumes were high as aerosol production was first insourced at our Ormond Beach plant.
Feminine Care


Feminine Care net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased $6.5, or 7.3%, inclusive of a 0.3% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 7.6%, due to volume declines in tampons and pads related to prior distribution losses, offset in part by growth in Carefree liners.
Feminine Care segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $5.0, a decrease of $3.3, or 39.8%, inclusive of a 2.4% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased $3.5, or 42.2%, due to lower volumes and higher product costs compared to the prior year, when production volumes were higher in advance of the final consolidation of manufacturing into one plant.
All Other


All Other net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 1.2%, due to a 1.2% increase from the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales remained flat compared to the prior year quarter as growth in Diaper Genie and Pet Care was offset by declines in infant feeding products.
All Other segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $7.2, an increase of $0.3, or 4.3%, inclusive of a 2.9% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit increased 1.4%.
General Corporate and Other Expenses



For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, general corporate expenses were $18.4, or 3.9% of net sales, as compared to $16.4, or 3.4% of net sales, in the prior year quarter.
The increase in corporate expenses compared to the prior year quarter was driven by a loss on the sale of an asset related to our ZBS initiative and executive severance related charges.
Liquidity and Capital Resources

At December 31, 2017, substantially all of our cash balances were located outside the U.S.
Given our extensive international operations, a significant portion of our cash is denominated in foreign currencies.
We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed.
We generally repatriate a portion of current year earnings from select non-US subsidiaries only if the economic cost of the repatriation is not considered material.
As a result of the Tax Act signed December 22, 2017, we expect to repatriate a significant amount of cash from foreign subsidiaries.
We are currently evaluating the amount and expected uses of repatriated cash.
We do not expect the incremental cost of repatriating cash to be material.
The counterparties to deposits consist of a number of major financial institutions.
We consistently monitor positions with, and credit ratings of, counterparties both internally and by using outside ratings agencies.
Our total borrowings were $1,699.8 at December 31, 2017, including $603.8 tied to variable interest rates.
Our total borrowings at September 30, 2017 were $1,544.8.
The increase in borrowings during the quarter were used to finance share repurchases.
As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding borrowings of $398.0 under our unsecured revolving credit facility in the U.S. (the "Revolving Facility") and $8.0 of outstanding letters of credit.
Taking into account outstanding borrowings and outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2017, $319.0 remains available under the Revolving Facility.
At September 30, 2017, we had outstanding borrowings of $245.0 under the Revolving Facility.
As of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2016, we had approximately $185.0 outstanding under a term loan.
We had outstanding international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $21.1 and $19.4 as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
The expected minimum required contribution to our pension plans in fiscal 2018 is $9.6; however, discretionary contributions may also be made.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we contributed $2.4 to our pension plans.
As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with the provisions and covenants associated with our debt agreements.
Cash Flows



Operating Activities

Cash flow used by operating activities was $21.0 during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to $51.9 during the same period in the prior year.
Due to the seasonality of the Company's business, primarily in Sun Care, the first fiscal quarter is typically the lowest operating cash flow quarter of the year.
The improvement in operating cash flow was driven by changes in working capital, primarily accounts receivable and inventory.
Changes in cash flows from Operating activities resulting from the Tax Act include a reduction in Net Earnings from the net transition charge of $16.2, a non-cash deferred tax adjustment and an offsetting change in operating assets and liabilities from the increase in current and long-term income taxes payable.
The Company expects that fiscal 2018 free cash flow will be above 100% of GAAP net earnings.
Investing Activities

Cash flow from investing activities was $9.5 during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to cash used by investing activities of $47.7 during the same period in the prior year.
The change was primarily due to the $34.0 acquisition of Bulldog in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and the $19.0 sale of the Playtex gloves business in fiscal 2018.
Capital expenditures were $11.6 during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to $13.7 during the same period in the prior year.
Financing Activities

Net cash from financing activities was $34.5 during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to net cash used by financing activities of $206.5 during the same period in the prior year.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we had $153.0 of additional borrowings under the Revolving Facility offset in part by share repurchases of $115.2.
In the prior year period, the Company had net debt repayments of $141.0 under the Revolving Facility and share repurchases of $58.0.
Share Repurchases

During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we repurchased 1.9 shares of our common stock for $115.2, all of which were purchased under the previous authorization from May 2015.
In January 2018, the Board approved an authorization to repurchase up to 10.0 shares of the Company's common stock, replacing the previous stock repurchase authorization from May 2015.
Any future share repurchases would be made in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, in such amounts and at such times as the Company deems appropriate based upon prevailing market conditions, business needs and other factors.
Commitments and Contingencies

Contractual Obligations


There have been no other material changes in our contractual obligations since the presentation in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
Environmental Matters

Our operations, like those of other companies, are subject to various federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations intended to protect the public health and the environment.
These regulations relate primarily to worker safety, air and water quality, underground fuel storage tanks and waste handling and disposal.
It is difficult to quantify with certainty the cost of environmental matters, particularly remediation and future capital expenditures for environmental control equipment.
Total environmental capital expenditures and operating expenses are not expected to have a material effect on our total capital and operating expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive position.
However, current environmental spending estimates could be modified as a result of changes in our plans or our understanding of underlying facts, changes in legal requirements, including any requirements related to global climate change, or other factors.
Legal and Other Contingencies

We, and our affiliates, are subject to a number of legal proceedings in various jurisdictions arising out of our operations during the ordinary course of business.
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.
The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty.
We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions.
We establish accruals for those contingencies when the incurrence of a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated, and disclose the amount accrued and the amount of a reasonably possible loss in excess of the amount accrued, if such disclosure is necessary for our financial statements to not be misleading.
We do not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.
Based upon present information, we believe that our liability, if any, arising from such pending legal proceedings, asserted legal claims and known potential legal claims, which are likely to be asserted, is not reasonably likely to be material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, taking into account established accruals for estimated liabilities.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The following table sets forth the purchases of the Company's securities by the Company and any affiliated purchasers within the meaning of Rule 10b-18(a)(3) (17 CFR 240.10b-18(a)(3)) during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
