The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.
The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within "Forward-Looking Statements" below, and in Item 1A.
Risk Factors and "Forward-Looking Statements" included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Forward-Looking Statements.
This document contains both historical and forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts, but instead reflect our expectations, estimates or projections concerning future results or events, including, without limitation, the future earnings and performance of Edgewell Personal Care Company or any of our businesses.
These statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "expectation," "anticipate," "may," "could," "intend," "belief," "estimate," "plan," "target," "predict," "likely," "will," "should," "forecast," "outlook," or other similar words or phrases.
These statements are not guarantees of performance and are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by those statements.
We cannot assure you that any of our expectations, estimates or projections will be achieved.
The forward-looking statements included in this document are only made as of the date of this document, and we disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Numerous factors could cause our actual results and events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements, including, without limitation:
In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could significantly affect the accuracy of any such forward-looking statements.
The list of factors above is illustrative, but not exhaustive.
All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty.
Additional risks and uncertainties include those detailed from time to time in our publicly filed documents, including in Item 1A.
Risk Factors of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
