fls.txt
Although forward-looking statements in this report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us.


item1.txt
The Company’s analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
Certain information and footnote disclosures, normally included in annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, filed with the SEC on November 15, 2018, as amended by Amendment No.
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, marketable securities, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
In August 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) deferred the effective date of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), (“ASU 2014-09”), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Refer to Note 2, Revenue Recognition, for additional information.
This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
This ASU requires a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured on the basis of amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
This ASU requires that credit losses of debt securities designated as available-for-sale be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
This ASU expands the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Topic 350), Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract (“ASU 2018-15”).
This ASU requires lessees to reflect leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as assets and obligations.
Based on that assessment, the Company has estimated that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will result in the recognition of approximately $150 million to $170 million of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities based on the present value of future minimum lease payments for currently executed leases.
At June 28, 2019, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $80.6 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment.
At September 28, 2018, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $94.1 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment.
These amounts accrued at June 28, 2019, for capital equipment purchases have been excluded from the consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, and are expected to be paid in subsequent periods.


item2.txt
We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
Our analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
This decrease in net revenue for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, is primarily related to weakness in smartphone demand, partially offset by the increasing number of applications of the Internet of Things, our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, consumer, industrial, infrastructure, medical, and military, and our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve.
Gross profit represents net revenue less cost of goods sold.
Our cost of goods sold consists primarily of purchased materials, labor and overhead (including depreciation and share-based compensation expense) associated with product manufacturing.
In addition, we incurred a $66.6 million inventory-related charge due to lower expected demand as a result of Huawei being added to the Entity List.


item3.txt
Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk.
Based on our results of operations for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash, cash equivalents, and other investments to zero would result in an immaterial reduction of interest income with a de minimis impact on income before taxes.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 28, 2019.


part2.txt
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.
The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some such lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company.
Except as set forth below, there have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2018 10-K. A substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from shipments to customers located outside the United States, primarily in countries located in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe.


