fls.txt
We wish to caution readers that all forward-looking statements are necessarily speculative and not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, and to advise readers that actual results could vary due to a variety of risks and uncertainties.


item1.txt
In 1989, we were formed and incorporated in California.
We maintain a majority-owned subsidiary in Mexico (since 1998) and two divisions in each of Taiwan (since 1997) and China (since 2005).
Our Mexico location closed all operations in May 2013 (final closure is pending sale of our local 15,000 sq.
Our China location also serves as the engineering design support center responsible for arranging pre-production scheduling and mass production runs with joint venture partners for our projects, making component datasheets and test specifications, preparing samples, monitoring quality of shipments and performing failure analysis reports.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
Operating results for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of financial results for the full year.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
In February 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on leasing.
The new standard will require companies to record most leased assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and also proposes a dual model for recognizing expense.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions, or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
All revenue is generated from contracts with customers.


item2.txt
References to “Taitron,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Taitron Components Incorporated and its wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise specifically defines.
Revenue Recognition – Revenue is recognized upon shipment of the products, which is when legal transfer of title occurs and control of the product is transferred to the customer.
Sales returns for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were $3,000 and $2,000, respectively.
The allowance for sales returns and doubtful accounts at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 aggregated $39,000 and $38,000, respectively.
We evaluate inventories to identify excess, high-cost, slow-moving or other factors rendering inventories as unmarketable at normal profit margins.
In any case, actual amounts could be different from those estimated.
As a result, we expect our components inventory will be more passively marketed and distributed online for clearance through our internet sales portal, however at potentially lower rates due to the pricing pressures normally attributed with online shopping.
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we have classified inventory as a current asset in our March 31, 2019, condensed consolidated financial statements representing approximately 47% of current assets and 34% of total assets.
The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease of ODM project sales volume.
Gross profit for the first quarter of 2019 was $683,000 versus $654,000 in the comparable period for 2018, and gross margin percentage of net sales was 49.4% in the first quarter of 2019 versus 39.5% in the comparable period for 2018.
Other income was primarily derived from the rental income of excess office space at our headquarters in Valencia, CA.
We historically have satisfied our liquidity requirements through cash generated from operations, short-term commercial loans, subordinated related party promissory notes and issuance of equity securities.


item3.txt
Item 3.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.
Mine Safety Disclosures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


