In 1989, we were formed and incorporated in California.
We maintain a majority-owned subsidiary in Mexico (since 1998) and two divisions in each of Taiwan (since 1998) and China (since 2005).
Our Mexico location closed all operations in May 2013 (final closure is pending sale of our local 15,000 sq.
Our China location also serves as the engineering designs support center responsible for arranging pre-production scheduling and mass production runs with joint venture partners for our projects, making component datasheets and test specifications, preparing samples, monitoring quality of shipments and performing failure analysis reports.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The new standard will require companies to record most leased assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and also proposes a dual model for recognizing expense.
This guidance will be effective for the Company for the year ending December 31, 2019 and interim reporting periods within that year.The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, appearing in Item 1 of Part 1 of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
References to “Taitron,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Taitron Components Incorporated and its wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise specifically defines.
These estimates have a significant impact on our valuation and reserve accounts relating to the allowance for sales returns, doubtful accounts, inventory reserves and deferred income taxes.
Revenue Recognition – Revenue is recognized upon shipment of the products, which is when legal transfer of title occurs and control of the product is transferred to the customer.
Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.
We had inventory balances in the amount of $4,546,000 and $4,990,000 at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, which is presented net of valuation allowances of $7,946,000 and $7,848,000, respectively.
In any case, actual amounts could be different from those estimated.
As a result, we expect our components inventory will be more passively marketed and distributed online for clearance through our internet sales portal, however at potentially lower rates due to the pricing pressures normally attributed with online shopping.Controls and Procedures.Item 1.