fls.txt



item1.txt
In 1989, we were formed and incorporated in California.
We maintain a majority-owned subsidiary in Mexico (since 1998) and two divisions in each of Taiwan (since 1998) and China (since 2005).
Our Mexico location closed all operations in May 2013 (final closure is pending sale of our local 15,000 sq.
Our China location also serves as the engineering design support center responsible for arranging pre-production scheduling and mass production runs with joint venture partners for our projects, making component datasheets and test specifications, preparing samples, monitoring quality of shipments and performing failure analysis reports.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The new standard will require companies to record most leased assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and also proposes a dual model for recognizing expense.
Early adoption is permitted for transactions that have not been reported in financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
This guidance will be effective for the year ending December 31, 2019 and interim reporting periods within that year.
The amount and timing of revenue recognition did not change with the adoption of Topic 606.
Revenue is recognized at the point at which control of the underlying products are transferred to the customer.
All revenue is generated from contracts with customers.
Distribution Components - Our name brand electronic components.


item2.txt
Item 2.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, appearing in Item 1 of Part 1of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
References to “Taitron,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Taitron Components Incorporated and its wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise specifically defines.
These estimates have a significant impact on our valuation and reserve accounts relating to the allowance for sales returns, doubtful accounts, inventory reserves and deferred income taxes.
Revenue Recognition – Revenue is recognized upon shipment of the products, which is when legal transfer of title occurs and control of the product is transferred to the customer.
Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.
Due to the complexity of managing and maintaining a large inventory of product offerings, estimates are made regarding adjustments to the carrying values of inventories.
In any case, actual amounts could be different from those estimated.
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we have classified inventory as a current asset in our September 30, 2018, condensed consolidated financial statements representing approximately 51% of current assets and 36% of total assets.
The increase was driven by an increase of ODM project sales volume.
Gross profit for the third quarter of 2018 was $846,000 versus $768,000 in the comparable period for 2018, and gross margin percentage of net sales was 44.5% in the third quarter of 2018 versus 45.7% in the comparable period for 2017.
Income tax provision was $2,000 for the third quarter of 2018 and 2017, as we do not expect significant taxable income for the year ending December 31, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.
Mine Safety Disclosures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


