fls.txt
The forward-looking information may include, among other information, statements concerning our outlook for fiscal year 2019, overall volume and pricing trends, cost reduction and acquisition strategies and their anticipated results, and expectations for research and development and capital expenditures.


item1.txt
The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
There are general product warranties within our contracts, as the Company warrants that products will function as expected in accordance with the specifications per the contract.
Payment terms for the Company’s sales are generally less than 90 days.
We evaluate gross versus net presentation on revenues from products purchased and resold in accordance with the revenue recognition criteria outlined in ASC 606.
Accordingly, commissions are expensed as incurred.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns.
When the product is returned and verified, the customer is given credit against their accounts receivable.
Stock rotation is a program whereby distributor customers are allowed to return, for credit, qualified inventory, semi-annually, equal to a certain percentage, primarily limited to 5% of the previous six months net sales.
An asset is recorded for the estimated value of returned product.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns under the stock rotation program.
When the product is returned and verified, the distributor is given credit against their accounts receivable.
The pricing adjustment is deemed variable consideration.
At the time the distributor ships the part from stock, the distributor debits us for the authorized pricing adjustment.
In 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers.” This guidance modifies how an entity will determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized.
The Company adopted this guidance effective April 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method, with no material impact on our results of operations.
The classification criteria maintains the distinction between finance leases and operating leases.
Management is currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.
We used the acquisition method of accounting to record the below transactions in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations.” In accordance with the acquisition method, the purchase price is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values with the excess being allocated to goodwill.
The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
The Ethertronics business is now named AVX Antenna and is consolidated with our Electronic Components segment.
The results of operations for AVX Antenna since the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.
We recorded approximately $64,800 of identifiable intangible assets and $75,625 of goodwill.
We recognized revenue of $31,941 from AVX Antenna in the three month period ended June 30, 2018.


