The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
There are general product warranties within our contracts, as the Company warrants that products will function as expected in accordance with the specifications per the contract.
Payment terms for the Company’s sales are generally less than 90 days.
We evaluate gross versus net presentation on revenues from products purchased and resold in accordance with the revenue recognition criteria outlined in ASC 606.
Accordingly, commissions are expensed as incurred.
Sales revenue and cost of sales reported in the statement of operations are reduced to reflect estimated returns.
The estimated value of the return to customer’s inventory is recorded as an asset.
These procedures require the exercise of significant judgments.
When the product is returned and verified, the customer is given credit against their accounts receivable.
Stock rotation is a program whereby distributor customers are allowed to return, for credit, qualified inventory, semi-annually, equal to a certain percentage, primarily limited to 5% of the previous six months net sales.
An asset is recorded for the estimated value of returned product.
These procedures require the exercise of significant judgments.