fls.txt
Management is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking information may include, among other information, statements concerning our outlook for fiscal year 2020, overall volume and pricing trends, cost reduction and acquisition strategies and their anticipated results, and expectations for research and development and capital expenditures.
Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations and are inherently uncertain.


item1.txt
We have prepared the accompanying financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2019.
During the three month period ended  June 30, 2019, goodwill increased by $405 due to foreign currency translation.
Certain amounts in the prior year consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to the current year presentation.
Management is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.
In  February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, "Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income."
The adoption of this standard has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
The amendments in ASU 2018-14 would need to be applied on a retrospective basis.
We are currently assessing the impact the new guidance will have on our disclosures.
In  August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting For Implementation Costs Incurred In A Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is A Service Contract”.
The Company early adopted this standard effective  April 1, 2019, utilizing the prospective approach to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption.
The adoption of ASU 2018-15 has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
When available, we use the rate implicit in the lease to discount lease payments to present value; however, most of our leases do not provide a readily determinable implicit rate.
Therefore, we must estimate our incremental borrowing rate to discount the lease payments based on information available at lease commencement.
Our incremental borrowing rate is based on a credit-adjusted risk-free rate at commencement date, which best approximates a secured rate over a similar term of lease.
The Company paid $2,251 for its operating leases in the fiscal quarter ended  June 30, 2019, which are included in operating cash flows on the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period.
Charges related to stock rotation, ship from stock and debit, sales returns, and sales discounts are reported as deductions from revenue.
The funds in the non-qualified deferred compensation program are valued based on the number of shares in the funds using a price per share traded in an active market.
Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary.
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities.
Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract.
We have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity.
All income generated from the held-to-maturity securities investments are recorded as interest income.
Actual maturities  may differ from contractual maturities because issuers  may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.


