fls.txt
The forward-looking information may include, among other information, statements concerning our outlook for fiscal year 2018, overall volume and pricing trends, cost reduction and acquisition strategies and their anticipated results, and expectations for research and development and capital expenditures.


item1.txt
All significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated.
We have prepared the accompanying financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2017.
This was the primary reason for a change in AVX's global tax rate estimate for the fiscal year ending  March 2018, resulting in a blended, estimated global tax rate of 27% for fiscal 2018.
This one-time tax is assessed at a 15.5% rate on all such earnings held in cash or liquid asset positions, and at an 8% rate on all other non-liquid asset positions.
Based on our current interpretation of the Act, we made reasonable estimates to record provisional adjustments during our fiscal third quarter ended  December 31, 2017.
The standard became effective for the interim reporting period ending  June 30, 2017 and has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Step 2 measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of goodwill.
Companies are to apply the standard on a prospective basis.
The adoption of this standard has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In  August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging.” The standard aims to align the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results for cash flow and fair value hedge accounting with risk management activities.
Management is currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.
The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
Therefore, final amounts recorded  may differ from information presented pending further review of the acquired business.
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period.
Charges related to stock rotation, ship from stock and debit, sales returns, and sales discounts are reported as deductions from revenue.
The following describes valuation techniques used to appropriately value our assets held in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan and derivatives.
The funds in the non-qualified deferred compensation program are valued based on the number of shares in the funds using a price per share traded in an active market.
Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary.
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities.
Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract.
The spot rates and forward points used are an average rate from an actively traded market.
We have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity.
All income generated from the held-to-maturity securities investments are recorded as interest income.
Actual maturities  may differ from contractual maturities because issuers  may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.
Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or state regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean-up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs.


