fls.txt
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.


item1.txt
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019 include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that RF Industries, Ltd. formed for the sole purpose of acquiring the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P.
The acquisition of the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P. was completed on March 15, 2019.
For all periods on or before January 31, 2019, references herein to the “Company” shall refer to RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, and Rel-Tech, and for all periods after January 31, 2019, references to the “Company” shall refer to RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises, collectively.
Certain amounts in the prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and notes have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation of continuing operations and discontinued operations (see Note 3).
As of July 31, 2019 and October 31, 2018, the carrying amounts reflected in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximated their carrying value due to their short-term nature.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.


item2.txt
The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations.
The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
These inputs include the expected term of employee stock options, the expected volatility of the stock price, the risk-free interest rate and expected dividends.
For the nine months ended July 31, 2019, most of the Company’s revenues were generated from the Custom Cabling segment from the sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies, and wiring harnesses (which accounted for 75% of the Company’s total sales for the nine months ended July 31, 2019).
Revenues from the RF Connector segment were generated from the sales of RF connector products and connector cable assemblies and accounted for 25% of the Company’s total sales for the nine months ended July 31, 2019.
As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of July 31, 2019, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the remainder of the current fiscal year.
The Company used cash of $3.0 million in operating activities during the nine months ended July 31, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end.
Net income of $2.7 million, with an added increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.4 million from depreciation and amortization and $0.3 million from stock-based compensation expense, was offset by an increase in accounts receivable ($4.4 million) and inventories ($0.5 million) as well as a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payout of prior year bonuses ($0.9 million) and an increase in accounts payable ($0.1 million).
The Company used $0.9 million during the nine months ended July 31, 2019 for capital expenditures primarily for the purpose of increasing production and the purchase of the assets and business of C Enterprises.
For example, on March 15, 2019, the Company purchased all of the assets of C Enterprises for $600,000 in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.


part2.txt
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report.
Nothing to report.


