fls.txt
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are normal and recurring, have been included in order to make the information not misleading.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Inc. (“Cables Unlimited”), Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc. (“Comnet”), and Rel-Tech Electronics, Inc. (“Rel-Tech”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of RF Industries, Ltd. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, the Company did not recognize any royalty income.
For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $34,000 and $162,000 of royalty income, respectively, for RadioMobile, which amounts of which have been included within discontinued operations.
During March 2016, the Company announced the shutdown of its Bioconnect division, which comprised the entire operations of the Medical Cabling and Interconnect segment.
The closure is part of the Company’s ongoing plan to close or dispose of underperforming divisions that are not part of the Company’s core operations.
For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $0 and $10,000 of income from sale of equipment for the Bioconnect division, respectively, which amounts have been included within discontinued operations.
The Company estimates the fair value of the earn-out liability using a probability-weighted scenario of estimated qualifying earn-out gross profit related to Rel-Tech and EBITDA related to Comnet calculated at net present value (level 3 of the fair value hierarchy).
Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding increased by the effects of assuming that other potentially dilutive securities (such as stock options) outstanding during the period had been exercised and the treasury stock method had been applied.


item2.txt
The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
As of July 31, 2018, the remaining earn-out obligation of $210,000 had not yet been paid out, however, subsequently in August 2018, the Company paid the $210,000 earn-out liability relieving the Company of its earn-out obligations.
Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the earn-out as of the acquisition date.
These inputs include the expected term of employee stock options, the expected volatility of the stock price, the risk-free interest rate and expected dividends.
Subsequent to the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017, the Company experienced a substantial increase in orders for its products in the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment.
During the quarter ended April 30, 2018, the Company filled most of the January 31, 2018 backlog, which contributed to the large sale increase for the three months ended April 30, 2018.
Despite shipping most of the January 31, 2018 backlog in the three month period ended April 30, 2018, backlog stood at $9.5 million and $7.8 million, as of April 30, 2018 and July 31, 2018, respectively, as a result of additional new orders received during the second and third quarter.
As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of July 31, 2018, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the balance of the current fiscal year.
The Company generated cash of $5.6 million during the nine months ended July 31, 2018 due largely to the impact of increased sales, which resulted in net income of $5.4 million.
In addition, during the nine months ended July 31, 2018, the Company received $1.0 million from the exercise of stock options and paid out $0.5 million in dividends.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.


part2.txt
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report.
Nothing to report.


