fls.txt
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.


item1.txt
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are normal and recurring, have been included in order to make the information not misleading.
Operating results for the three month ended January 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending October 31, 2018.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2017.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Inc. (“Cables Unlimited”), Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc. (“Comnet”), and Rel-Tech Electronics, Inc. (“Rel-Tech”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of RF Industries, Ltd. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018 and January 31, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $0 and $62,000 of royalty income, respectively, for RadioMobile, which amount has been included within discontinued operations.
During March 2016, the Company announced the shutdown of its Bioconnect division, which comprised the entire operations of the Medical Cabling and Interconnect segment.
The closure is part of the Company’s ongoing plan to close or dispose of underperforming divisions that are not part of the Company’s core operations.
For the three months ended January 31, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $10,000 of income from sale of equipment for the Bioconnect division, which has been included within discontinued operations.
The Company estimates the fair value of the earn-out liability using a probability-weighted scenario of estimated qualifying earn-out gross profit related to Rel-Tech and EBITDA related to Comnet calculated at net present value (level 3 of the fair value hierarchy).


item2.txt
Moreover, neither the Company, nor any other person, assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements.
The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
Any changes in the assumed timing and amount of the probability of payment scenarios could impact the fair value.
Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the earn-out as of the acquisition date.
The Company uses the Black-Scholes model to value the stock option grants.
These inputs include the expected term of employee stock options, the expected volatility of the stock price, the risk-free interest rate and expected dividends.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.
Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
Part II.
Nothing to report.


