fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
We eliminate all significant affiliate accounts and transactions in consolidation.
Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31.
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was March 31, 2019, the 90th day of our fiscal year 2019.
Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days.
The nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018 included 272 and 273 days, respectively.
•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) adopted the final rule under SEC Release No.
33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, amending certain disclosure requirements that were redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded.
Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement.
The analysis should present a reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance of each period presented.
We implemented SEC Release No.
2016-13 (“ASU 2016-13”), Financial Instruments - Credit Losses.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by major product category.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the location of the customer purchasing the product.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.
We also generate revenues from providing support and professional services.
Generally, we determine relative selling price using the prices charged to customers on a standalone basis.
Depending on the terms of an arrangement, we may defer the recognition of some or all of the consideration received because we have to satisfy a future obligation.


item2.txt
Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a global supplier of specialty networking solutions built around two global business platforms - Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation.
We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators.
We also seek to acquire businesses that we believe can help us achieve these objectives.
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, Indian rupee, and Brazilian real.
Therefore, all references to the effect of copper prices or other commodity prices are estimates.
Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.
We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



