fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
We eliminate all significant affiliate accounts and transactions in consolidation.
Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31.
The three months ended April 2, 2017 included 92 days.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
During the financial closing process for the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined that certain consolidated financial statement amounts were not recorded correctly in prior interim periods of 2017.
The impact of the errors in the first quarter of 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $6.1 million and $3.0 million, respectively.
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017.
We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments.
As of April 1, 2018, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
In July 2015, a jury found that Corning willfully infringed both patents.
In November 2016, following a series of post-trial motions, the trial judge issued rulings for a total judgment in our favor of approximately $61.3 million.
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance, without written opinion, of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded about $61.8 million as a result.
On April 12, 2018, Corning filed a petition for re-hearing.
Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations.
The term between invoicing and when payment is due is generally not significant.
Sales commissions for which the related service or support contract extends beyond one year are capitalized in other current or long-lived assets and recognized as expense over the related service or support period.
In the event the related service or support period is twelve months or less, we apply the practical expedient and expense the sales commissions when incurred.


item2.txt
We also seek to acquire businesses that we believe can help us achieve these objectives.
Therefore, all references to the effect of copper prices or other commodity prices are estimates.
As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.
We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate.
To the extent that we exceed the market growth rates, we consider it to be the result of capturing market share.
We completed the acquisition of Snell Advanced Media (SAM) on February 8, 2018.
In March 2018, we issued €350.0 million ($431.3 million at issuance) aggregate principal amount of new senior subordinated notes due 2028 at an interest rate of 3.875%.
The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment.
We also expect the program to generate approximately $44 million of savings on an annualized basis, which we will start realizing in the second half of 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.


part2.txt
PPC Broadband, Inc. v. Corning Optical Communications RF, LLC - On July 5, 2011, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, PPC Broadband, Inc. (“PPC”), filed an action for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of New York against Corning Optical Communications RF LLC (“Corning”).


