fls.txt



item1.txt
We eliminate all significant affiliate accounts and transactions in consolidation.
•Include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments.
The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions.
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) adopted the final rule under SEC Release No.
33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, amending certain disclosure requirements that were redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded.
Additionally, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements.
Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement.
The analysis should present a reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance of each period presented.
2016-13 (“ASU 2016-13”), Financial Instruments - Credit Losses.
The new standard will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2020.
At times, we enter into arrangements that involve the delivery of multiple performance obligations.
For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied.
we expect to receive changes or when the consideration becomes fixed.
Adjustments to revenue for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods were not significant during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018.
Depending on the terms of an arrangement, we may defer the recognition of a portion of the consideration received because we have to satisfy a future obligation.
Consideration allocated to support services under a support and maintenance contract is typically paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the service.
As of June 30, 2019, total deferred revenue was $107.4 million, and of this amount, $94.2 million is expected to be recognized within the next twelve months, and the remaining $13.2 million is long-term and is expected to be recognized over a period greater than twelve months.


item2.txt
Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a signal transmission solutions company built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Comparisons of our results between periods can be impacted by changes in the levels of channel inventory.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.
The markets in which we operate can generally be characterized as highly competitive and highly fragmented, with many players.
We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate.
To the extent that we exceed the market growth rates, we consider it to be the result of capturing market share.
We completed the acquisitions of Opterna International Corp. (Opterna) on April 15, 2019 and FutureLink on April 5, 2019.
The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



