fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
We eliminate all significant affiliate accounts and transactions in consolidation.
Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
During the financial closing process for the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined that certain consolidated financial statement amounts were not recorded correctly in prior interim periods of 2017.
The impact of the errors in the three months ended October 1, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $11.8 million and $2.6 million, respectively.
The impact of the errors in the nine months ended October 1, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $28.3 million and $6.9 million, respectively.
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017.
We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments.
As of September 30, 2018, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand.
We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes.
We have established liabilities for environmental and legal contingencies that are probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable, the amounts of which are currently not material.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
The complaint alleged that Corning infringed two of PPC’s patents.
In July 2015, a jury found that Corning willfully infringed both patents.
In November 2016, following a series of post-trial motions, the trial judge issued rulings for a total judgment in our favor of approximately $61.3 million.
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded approximately $61.8 million, plus accrued interest.


item2.txt
Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a signal transmission solutions company built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
Effective January 1, 2018, we changed our organizational structure and, as a result, now are reporting two segments.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
We completed the acquisition of Net-Tech Technology, Inc. (NT2) and Snell Advanced Media (SAM) on April 25, 2018 and February 8, 2018, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In April 2018, Corning filed a petition for re-hearing, which was denied in May 2018.
We are also a party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions that are incidental to our operations.
There may be additional risks that impact our business that we currently do not recognize as, or that are not currently, material to our business.
Price erosion may occur through competitors becoming more aggressive in pricing practices.
A challenging global economy could also make it difficult for our customers, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities.
Economic uncertainty could also arise from fiscal policy changes in the countries in which we operate.
For example, a strengthened U.S. dollar can result in relative price increases for our products for customers outside of the U.S., which can have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations.


