  Overview 
Our Company 
We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits. These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries. Bel's portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets. 
Key Factors Affecting our Business 
  ·   Revenues – The Company's revenues increased by $13.7 million (or 5.6%) in the first half of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, despite a $3.7 million decline in sales related to the NPS divestiture. Sales growth was seen across all of our major product groups and primarily related to higher sales through our distribution partners during the 2018 period and the new project wins from 2017 moving into production.     
Return to Index  
  ·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first half of 2018 increased from 10.2% of sales during the first half of 2017 to 11.4% of sales during the first half of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products. Effective February 1, 2018, the PRC government issued an increase to the minimum wage in a region where one of Bel's factories is located. Effective July 1, 2018, government-mandated minimum wage increases will go into effect at Bel's other three manufacturing facilities in the PRC.     
Return to Index  
The growth in North America sales in 2018 was largely due to increased demand for our passive connector products in structured cabling applications, strength in our connectivity products within key military programs, and higher sales of our transformer products into medical applications. In addition, sales with our Power Solutions business rebounded in 2018 largely due to increased demand for our power supplies in various datacenter applications. The decrease in Asia sales noted above for the second quarter primarily relates to reduced demand for custom module products, which was offset in part by higher sales of our integrated connector modules during the second quarter of 2018. Sales in Europe increased in both 2018 periods presented as a result of higher demand for our Stewart and Cinch connector products in that region, coupled with strong sales of our power products into rail applications. There was also a favorable impact on our European sales in general as a portion of those sales are invoiced in Euros or Pounds, which had appreciated against the U.S. Dollar in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the same periods of 2017. 
Net sales and income from operations by operating segment for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows. Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for customer sales. 
The improvement in income from operations within our North America segment was largely due to higher sales volumes in the 2018 periods, partially offset by increased material costs on purchased components. The six-month period of 2018 was also affected by higher labor costs in Mexico, due to the appreciation of the Peso during the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period last year. The reduction in income from operations at our Asia segment for the six-month period was primarily due to higher labor costs driven by an increase in minimum wage rates at one of our factories in the PRC and the unfavorable appreciation of the Renminbi during the first half of 2018 compared to the same period of 2017. Asia income from operations was flat year-over-year for the second quarter as higher labor and material costs were offset by a favorable shift in product mix and foreign exchange gains on the remeasurement of foreign exchange transactions. The increase in income from operations from our Europe segment are consistent with the increase in sales for that segment. 
Net Sales 
Return to Index  
Our Magnetic Solutions group benefited from a strong position on next-generation switching products which utilize our integrated connector modules. This accounted for $1.0 million and $3.9 million of the sales growth during the second quarter and six-month period versus 2017. Our Signal Transformer business also contributed with an increase in sales of $1.3 million and $1.6 million during the second quarter and six-month period, as orders from new programs within industrial applications continued to ramp up in the second quarter. 
Cost of Sales 
Material costs as a percentage of sales increased during the 2018 periods noted above compared to the same periods of 2017 primarily due to two factors. Starting in late-2017, there have been industry-wide supply constraints related to certain of our purchased components and this has had an unfavorable impact in the form of higher material costs across most of our product lines. In addition, certain of our manufacturing sites outside of the U.S., particularly those in the PRC, invoice in U.S. Dollars, but purchase materials in a mix of U.S. Dollars and local currency. The Renminbi appreciated 7% relative to the U.S. Dollar in the three and six months ended June 2018 versus the same periods last year. As a result, our material costs as a percentage of sales has increased for the 2018 periods noted. 
Labor costs as a percentage of sales also increased during the second quarter and first half of 2018 compared to the same periods of 2017 due to several factors. The appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar drove labor costs as a percentage of sales higher in 2018, as the majority of our Asia sales are invoiced in U.S. Dollars, while our manufacturing staff at PRC locations are paid in local currency. Effective February 1, 2018, the PRC issued an increase to the minimum wage in a region where one of Bel's factories is located, and this contributed to the higher labor costs in the 2018 periods.  
Return to Index  
The other expenses noted in the table above include fixed cost items such as support labor and fringe, depreciation and amortization, and facility costs (rent, utilities, insurance). In total, these other expenses increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 by $0.5 million and $2.1 million, respectively, as compared to the same periods of 2017. This included higher support labor costs of $0.2 million and $1.4 million, respectively, due to the appreciation of the Euro, Pound, Swiss Franc and Renminbi as compared to the U.S. Dollar as compared to the 2017 periods. 
Our primary sources of cash are the collection of trade receivables generated from the sales of our products and services to our customers and amounts available under our existing lines of credit, including our credit facility. Our primary uses of cash are payments for operating expenses, investments in working capital, capital expenditures, interest, taxes, dividends, debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. We believe that our current liquidity position and future cash flows from operations will enable us to fund our operations, including all of the items mentioned above in the next twelve months. 
Return to Index  
Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and accounts receivable comprised approximately 33.1% of the Company's total assets at June 30, 2018 and 34.4% of total assets at December 31, 2017. The Company's current ratio (i.e., the ratio of current assets to current liabilities) was 2.9 to 1 at June 30, 2018 and 3.0 to 1 at December 31, 2017. 
In June 2014, the Company entered into a senior Credit and Security Agreement, which was subsequently amended in March 2016, and further amended and refinanced in December 2017. The Credit and Security Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and financial covenants that measure (i) the ratio of the Company's total funded indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, to the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA, as defined ("Leverage Ratio"), and (ii) the ratio of the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA to the Company's consolidated fixed charges ("Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio"). If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the Credit and Security Agreement would be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due thereunder and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. At June 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with its debt covenants, including its most restrictive covenant, the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio. The unused credit available under the credit facility at June 30, 2018 was $75.0 million, of which we had the ability to borrow $30.4 million without violating our Leverage Ratio covenant based on the Company's existing consolidated EBITDA. 
Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 
  ·   purchases of property, plant and equipment of $5.9 million;     
  ·   dividend payments of $1.6 million; partially offset by     
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, accounts receivable increased by $10.5 million primarily due to higher sales volume in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2017. Days sales outstanding (DSO) declined to 58 days at June 30, 2018 from 60 days at December 31, 2017. Effective January 1, 2018, the Company implemented a change in the timing of revenue recognition (and related release of inventory from our books) in connection with the adoption of ASC 606, as described in Note 2. Excluding the adoption adjustment related to this accounting change, inventory increased by $10.6 million at June 30, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017, primarily in raw materials. The increased raw materials balance was driven by a higher volume of raw materials purchased to accommodate increased demand for our products, coupled with higher material costs in 2018 resulting from constraints in component availability. Inventory turns increased from 3.6 at December 31, 2017 to 4.2 at June 30, 2018, primarily due to the change in revenue recognition accounting noted above. 
Return to Index  
  ·   net cash used in operating activities of $0.4 million;     
  ·   purchases of property, plant and equipment of $2.2 million;     
  ·   repayments of long-term debt of $15.4 million.     
Critical Accounting Policies 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
The discussion of new financial accounting standards applicable to the Company is incorporated herein by reference to Note 1 to the Company's Financial Statements, "Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies," included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
Pursuant to the Bel Fuse Inc. Employees' Savings Plan (the "Employees' Savings Plan"), the Company makes matching contributions of pre-tax elective deferral contributions made by associates. The Employees' Savings Plan provides for matching contributions to be invested in shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock. The trustees of the Employees' Savings Plan adopted a "10b5-1 Plan," in accordance with guidelines specified by Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, to make open market purchases of shares of Class A Common Stock with such matching contributions. The purchases in the table above were made under the 10b5-1 Plan. The maximum dollar amount for cumulative purchases under the 10b5-1 Plan during the plan period (March 15, 2018 to July 31, 2018) will not exceed $650,000.  
Return to Index  
Return to Index  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
