We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
The condensed financial information as of July 31, 2018 and for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018 and July 31, 2017 is unaudited.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We record all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities at fair value.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of July 31, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from August 2018 through July 2019.
Dollars at July 31, 2018, were $35.8 million for Euros, $10.0 million for Pounds Sterling and $38.2 million for New Taiwan Dollars.
At July 31, 2018, we had approximately $507,000 of losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through July 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
To manage this risk, we entered into a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million in November 2017.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
Dollars for reporting in our financial statements are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
Sales and service fees for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $78.8 million, an increase of $18.0 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $1.8 million, or 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 31%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and France.