fls.txt



item1.txt
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
The condensed financial information as of January 31, 2018 and for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and January 31, 2017 is unaudited.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We record all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities at fair value.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. At January 31, 2018, we had approximately $2.2 million of losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through January 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
To manage this risk, we entered into a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million in November 2017.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.
We selected the forward method under Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance related to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
No further awards will be made under our 2008 Plan.
The total number of shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to awards under the 2016 Equity Plan is 856,048, which includes 386,048 shares remaining available for future grants under the 2008 Plan as of March 10, 2016, the date our shareholders approved the 2016 Equity Plan.
The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors has the authority to determine the officers, directors and key employees who will be granted awards under the 2016 Equity Plan; designate the number of shares subject to each award; determine the terms and conditions upon which awards will be granted; and prescribe the form and terms of award agreements.
No stock option may be exercised more than ten years after the date of grant or such shorter period as the Compensation Committee may determine at the date of grant.
The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the three months ended January 31, 2018 was approximately $492,000.
On March 9, 2017, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 14,920 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-employee directors.


item2.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
Machine castings and components to support HML’s production are manufactured at our wholly-owned subsidiary in Ningbo, China, Ningbo Machine Tool Co., Ltd.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
Sales and service fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were $68.4 million, an increase of $19.7 million, or 40%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $4.4 million, or 9%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 50%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 15%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Italy.


item3.txt
Interest on borrowings on our credit facilities are variable and tied to prevailing domestic and foreign interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Pursuant to applicable accounting rules, we accrue the minimum liability for each known claim when the estimated outcome is a range of possible loss and no one amount within that range is more likely than another.


