fls.txt



item1.txt
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training, and applications support.
The condensed financial information as of April 30, 2019 and for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 and April 30, 2018 is unaudited.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support.
We adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on November 1, 2018, the start of our 2019 fiscal year, and elected the modified retrospective method as of the date of adoption.
For each contract, we identify our performance obligations, which is delivering goods or services, determine the transaction price, allocate the contract transaction price to the performance obligations (when applicable), and recognize the revenue when (or as) the performance obligation is transferred to the customer.
A good or service is transferred when the customer obtains control of that good or service.
For our five-axis machines that we install, we estimate the fair value of the installation performance obligation and recognize that installation revenue on a prorate basis over the period of the installation process.
We consider these services to be perfunctory within the context of the contract, as the value of these services typically does not rise to a material level as a component of the total contract value.
Service fees from maintenance contracts are deferred and recognized in earnings on a prorate basis over the term of the contract and are generally sold on a stand-alone basis.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a few major financial institutions.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of April 30, 2019, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from May 2019 through April 2020.
Dollars at April 30, 2019, were $24.9 million for Euros, $9.5 million for Pounds Sterling and $26.0 million for New Taiwan Dollars.
At April 30, 2019, we had approximately $702,000 of gains, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Included in this amount were $195,000 of unrealized gains, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.


item2.txt
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
Sales and service fees for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $70.7 million, an increase of $250,000, or less than 1%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of $3.0 million, or 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 10%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increase in sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines from a U.S. machine tool distributor acquired by Hurco in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 located in California, one of the largest machine tool markets in the U.S., and increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in the U.S. European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were relatively unchanged compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 7%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, which was largely offset by increased sales of Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany.
Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 9%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France.
Sales of service parts and service fees increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 by 4% and 5%, respectively, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $67.2 million, a decrease of $12.7 million, or 16%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $2.6 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.


item3.txt
Interest on borrowings on our credit facilities are variable and tied to prevailing domestic and foreign interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
From time to time, we are involved in claims and lawsuits arising in the normal course of business.


