 CODMs evaluating performance based upon segment operating profit or loss that includes an allocation of common expenses, but excludes certain unallocated corporate expenses, which are included in the Other segment. Our CODMs review the operating results of our three segments, assess performance and allocate resources in a manner that is consistent with the changing market dynamics that we have experienced. As a result, in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we updated our operating segments to reflect the fact that we provide our software solutions through three major operating segments, which are further broken down into a total of six major product and service groups. The three operating segments are (1) Supply Chain Management (“SCM”), (2) Information Technology (“IT”) Consulting and (3) Other.  
E. Acquisitions  
No one customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017.  
The SCM segment consists of Logility, which provides supply chain optimization and advance retail planning solutions, as an integrated suite of sales and operations planning, demand optimization, inventory optimization, manufacturing planning and scheduling, supply optimization, retail allocation and merchandise planning and transportation optimization, as well as (i) DMI, which provides collaborative supply chain solutions to streamline and optimize the forecasting, inventory, production, supply, allocation, distribution and management of products between trading partners, (ii) New Generation Computing (“NGC”), which provides cloud solutions for supply chain management, product lifecycle management, quality control, vendor compliance and enterprise resource planning for both retailers and manufacturers in the apparel, sewn products and furniture industries, and (iii) Halo, which provides advanced analytics and business intelligence solutions for the supply chain market. The IT Consulting segment consists of The Proven Method, Inc., an IT staffing and consulting services firm, which provides support for our software products, such as software enhancements, documentation, updates, customer education, consulting, systems integration services, maintenance and support services. The Other segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) unallocated corporate overhead expenses.  
Services. Revenue derived from services primarily includes consulting, implementation, and training. We primarily bill fees under time and materials arrangements and recognize them as we perform the services. In accordance with the other presentation matters within the Revenue Recognition Topic of the FASB’s Accounting Standards Codification, we recognize amounts received for reimbursement of travel and other out-of-pocket expenses incurred as revenue in the condensed consolidated statements of operations under services and other. These amounts totaled approximately $419,000 and $1.4 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively, and $414,000 and $1.6 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2017, respectively.  
Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) revenues include fees for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in a hosted environment by the Company or by a third party and the customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no ability to take delivery of the software. The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually. SaaS revenues (which rolls into services and other revenue) are recognized ratably over the subscription period once the services commence. Other cloud revenues consists of managed and hosting services.  
Maintenance. Revenue derived from maintenance contracts primarily includes telephone consulting, product updates, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services. Maintenance contracts are typically sold for a separate fee with initial contractual periods ranging from one to three years with renewal for additional periods thereafter. Maintenance fees are generally billed annually in advance. We recognize maintenance  Our IT Consulting segment operating income decreased 44% and increased 11% for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively, when compared to the prior year due to lower revenues for the three month period and improved gross margins for the nine month period.  
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, license fee revenues increased 50% and 6%, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the prior year. In the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, license fee revenues from our SCM business unit increased 49% and 6%, respectively, when compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year. We believe that the increase was due to the economic improvement in the global economy and higher overall business information technology spending. Our SCM business unit constituted 99% and 100% of total license fee revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our SCM business unit constituted 99% and 99% of total license fee revenues for the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our Other business unit license fee revenues increased by 627% for the three months ended January 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in the prior year and decreased 22% in the nine months ended January 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in the prior year due to timing of closing ERP deals.  
Our SCM segment’s operating income increased by 63% and 78% for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively, compared to same period last year primarily due to higher overall revenues and higher margin cloud services.  
The increase in cash used in investing activities when compared to the same period in the prior year was due primarily to the acquisition of Halo in the current quarter compared to the acquisition of AdapChain, Inc. in the prior year period and higher capitalized computer software development costs, partially offset by a decrease in purchases of property and equipment.  
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, our total gross margin percentage increased when compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to a higher license fee margin from higher license fees and for the nine months ended January 31, 2018, to a lesser extent, due to an increase in gross margins in services and other and maintenance revenues.  
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, the increase in other income was due primarily to a 1) higher unrealized gains on investments, 2) higher interest income and 3) an exchange rate gain of approximately $75,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2018 when compared to a loss of approximately $56,000 in the same period last year. This increase was partially offset by lower rental income when compared to the same period last year as a result of our real estate sale in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.  
Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 remained flat at 18% as a percentage of revenue. For the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, we had a slight reduction in sales and marketing expenses to 18% from 19% as a percentage of revenue, respectively. We generally include commissions on indirect sales in cost of sales.  
License fee gross margin percentage for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018 increased when compared to the same periods in the prior year due to higher license fees. License fee gross margin percentage tends to be directly related to the level of license fee revenues due to the relatively fixed cost of computer software amortization expense, amortization of acquired software and the sales mix between our direct and indirect channels.   $236,000 for the three months and nine months ended January 31, 2017, respectively. We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $456,000 and $455,000 exchange gain or loss for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively. We have not engaged in any hedging activities.   Item 6. Exhibits   Item 1. Legal Proceedings  