No one customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017.  
The SCM segment consists of Logility, which is a leading provider of collaborative supply chain optimization and advanced retail planning solutions that help medium, large and Fortune 500 companies transform their supply chain operations to gain a competitive advantage. Recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI), as well as (i) Demand Management, Inc (“DMI”), which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) New Generation Computing (“NGC”), which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo Business Inteligence (“Halo”), which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance. The Other segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) corporate overhead and other common expenses.  
The costs generate or enhance resources of the Company that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to satisfy) performance obligations in the future.  
fiscal 2018 recast to adjust for corporate overhead and other common expenses, which were no longer allocated starting fiscal 2019.  
Deferred revenue consists of amounts collected prior to having completed the performance of maintenance, SaaS, hosting, and managed services. We typically invoice customers for cloud subscription and support fees in advance on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, with payment due at the start of the cloud subscription or support term. During the three months ended July 31, 2018, we recognized $13 million of revenue that was included in the deferred revenue balance as of April 30, 2018, as adjusted for Topic 606, at the beginning of the period.  
Nature of Products and Services.  
Subscription Fees. Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in a hosted environment by the Company or by a third party and the customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no right to take delivery of the software without incurring a significant penalty. The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually. The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. Revenue from a SaaS solution is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement.  
Professional Services and other. Our services revenue consists of fees generated from consulting, implementation and training services, including reimbursements of out-pocket expenses in connection with our services. Services are typically optional to our customers, and are distinct from our software. Fees for our services are separately priced and are generally billed on an hourly basis, and revenue is recognized over time as the services are performed. We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed. The total amount of expense reimbursement included in professional services and other revenue was approximately $331,000 and $525,000 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  Our IT Consulting segment’s operating income increased by 55% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 compared to same period last year primarily due to increased revenues and gross margins.  
Our SCM segment operating income decreased 48% in the three months ended July 31, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower revenues and the recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.  
Our gross margin percentage on subscription fees revenues increased from 58% for the three months ended July 31, 2017 to 66% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue, compared to a lower incremental increase in cost.  
Our Other segment operating loss increased 14% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 when compared to the prior year due to an increase in corporate expenses and a decrease in revenues.  
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, our total gross margin percentage decreased when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to our lower margins on license fee revenue and professional services and other revenue, partially offset by higher margins on subscription fees and maintenance revenue.  
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, license fee revenues decreased 58% when compared to the same period in the prior year. In the three months ended July 31, 2018, license fee revenues from our SCM segment decreased 58% when compared to the same period in the prior year due to an increase in sales of our products on Logility’s Cloud Services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years. Our SCM segment constituted approximately 99% and 100% of total license fee revenues for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our Other segment license fee revenues increased by 67% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to timing of additional sales to our existing ERP customers.   Item 3.   Item 4.  
Not applicable.   Item 1.  
 Item 1A.  