J. Major Customers
operations to gain a competitive advantage and which is recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI). The SCM segment also includes (i) Demand Management, Inc (“DMI”), which delivers affordable, easy-to-use SaaS supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) New Generation Computing (“NGC”), which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo Business Intelligence (“Halo”), which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance. The Other segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) corporate overhead and other common expenses.
No one customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018.
b.The costs generate or enhance resources of the Company that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to satisfy) performance obligations in the future.
Professional Services and other. Our services revenue consists of fees generated from consulting, implementation and training services, including reimbursements of out-pocket expenses in connection with our services. Services are typically optional to our customers, and are distinct from our software. Fees for our services are separately priced and are generally billed on an hourly basis, and revenue is recognized over time as the services are performed. We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed. The total amount of expense reimbursement included in professional services and other revenue was approximately $336,000 and $1.1 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively, and approximately $419,000 and $1.4 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively.
Nature of Products and Services.
Subscription Fees. Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party. The customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no right to take delivery of the software without incurring a significant penalty. The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually. The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. Revenue from a SaaS solution is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement.
Deferred revenue consists of amounts collected prior to having completed the performance of maintenance, SaaS, hosting, and managed services. We typically invoice customers for cloud subscription and support fees in advance on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, with payment due at the start of the cloud subscription or support term. During the nine months ended January 31, 2019, we recognized $13 million of revenue that was included in the deferred revenue balance as of April 30, 2018, as adjusted for Topic 606, at the beginning of the period. 
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, we excluded options to purchase 2,416,421 and 464,475 Class A Common Shares, respectively, and for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, we excluded options to purchase 12,130 and 57,598 Class A Common Shares, respectively, from the computation of diluted earnings per Class A Common Shares. We excluded these option share amounts because the exercise prices of those options were greater than the average Our IT Consulting segment’s operating income increased by 32% and 29% for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 compared to same periods last year primarily due to increased revenues and gross margins.
Our SCM segment operating income decreased by 17% and 23% in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, sales and marketing expenses decreased 13% and increased 1%, respectively, when compared to the same periods a year ago, primarily due to lower commissions in the current quarter due to lower sales revenue and an increase in headcount for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 when compared to the same periods last year.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, our total gross margin percentages decreased when compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to our lower margins on license fee revenue and professional services and other revenue, partially offset by higher margins on subscription fees and maintenance revenue.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, license fee revenues decreased 71% and 56%, respectively, when compared to the same period in the prior year. In the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, license fee revenues from our SCM segment decreased 71% and 57%, respectively, when compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year due to an increase in sales of our products on Logility’s cloud services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years. For both the three months and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, our SCM segment constituted approximately 98% and 99% of total license fee revenues, respectively. Our Other segment license fee revenues decreased by 56% and increased by 30%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended January 31, 
The decrease in cash used in investing activities when compared to the same period in the prior year was mainly due to the Halo acquisition in fiscal 2018, partially offset by an increase in purchases of property and equipment and higher capitalized computer software development costs.
For fiscal 2019, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year. We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment. Although this improvement could slow or regress at any time, due in part to concerns in global capital markets None.Item 1.Legal Proceedings