No single customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018.
K. Major Customers
Our primary operating units under our SCM segment include Logility, Inc., New Generation Computing, Inc. (“NGC”), Demand Management, Inc. (“DMI”), and Halo Business Intelligence (“Halo”). Logility and NGC are wholly-owned subsidiaries of American Software; DMI is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Logility; and Halo is a division of Logility. In addition to our core SCM software business, we also offer technology staffing and consulting services through our wholly-owned subsidiary, The Proven Method, Inc., in the IT Consulting segment. The Other segment consists of software and services provided to our legacy enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) customers, as well as corporate overhead and other common expenses.
b.The costs generate or enhance resources of the Company that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to satisfy) performance obligations in the future.
Deferred revenue consists of amounts collected prior to having completed the performance of maintenance, SaaS, hosting, and managed services. We typically invoice customers for cloud subscription and support fees in advance on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, with payment due at the start of the cloud subscription or support term. During the three months ended July 31, 2019, we recognized $14 million of revenue that was included in the deferred revenue balance as of April 30, 2019. 
The Company's impact to the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows was presented in the operating activities section, which mainly consisted of cash paid for operating lease liabilities of approximately $0.3 million and the amortization of the right of use assets and operating lease obligations of $5,000 during the three months ended July 31, 2019. The Company did not modify any existing leases or execute any new leases during the three months ended July 31, 2019.
Nature of Products and Services.
Subscription Fees. Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party. The customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no right to take delivery of the software without incurring a significant penalty. The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually. The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. Revenue from a SaaS solution is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement.
Professional Services and Other. Our services revenue consists of fees generated from consulting, implementation and training services, including reimbursements of out-pocket expenses in connection with our services. Services are typically optional to our customers, and are distinct from our software. Fees for our services are separately priced and are generally billed on an hourly basis, and revenue is recognized over time as the services are performed. We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed. The total amount of expense reimbursement included in professional services and other revenue was approximately $0.4 million and 0.3 million for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our IT Consulting segment’s operating income decreased by 51% for the three months ended July 31, 2019 compared to same period in the prior year primarily due to decreased revenues and gross margins.
For fiscal 2020, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year. We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve 
Our Other segment operating loss increased by 15% for the three months ended July 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in the prior year due to an increase in corporate expenses, partially offset by an increase in revenues.
Our SCM segment operating income increased by 26% in the three months ended July 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an overall increase in revenues and decrease in costs of revenues.
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, our total gross margin percentages increased when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher margins on license fees, professional fees and other and maintenance revenue. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in our gross margin on subscription fees.
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, sales and marketing expenses increased 8% when compared to the same period a year ago, primarily due to higher commissions in the current quarter due to an increase in sales revenue.
Our gross margin percentage on subscription fees revenues decreased from 66% to 52% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and July 31, 2019, respectively, primarily due to an increase in capitalized software amortization expense and hosting expense.None.Item 1.Legal Proceedings