Item 4.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of October 27, 2018, which is the end of the period covered by this Report.
Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of October 27, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Based on the evaluation described in the foregoing paragraph, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that during the quarter ended October 27, 2018, there was no change in our internal control over financial reporting which has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Not applicable.
Item 1A.
RISK FACTORS

The discussion of our business and operations included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read together with the risk factors described in Item 1A.
of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject.
These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this Report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner.
New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial condition or financial results.
Item 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

Share Repurchases

During the six months ended October 27, 2018, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock.
Item 3.
Item 4.
Item 5.
OTHER INFORMATION

Not applicable.
Item 6.
EXHIBITS

A list of exhibits required to be filed as part of this report is set forth in the Index of Exhibits, which immediately precedes such exhibits, and is incorporated herein by reference.
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Index to Exhibits

Certain of the following exhibits are incorporated by reference from prior filings.
The form with which each exhibit was filed and the date of filing are as indicated below; the reports described below are filed as Commission File No.
0-23246 unless otherwise indicated.
