Item 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (including exhibits and any information incorporated by reference herein) contains both historical and forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future.
These statements appear in a number of places in this Report and include all statements that are not historical statements of fact regarding the intent, belief or current expectations with respect to, among other things: (i.)
our competition; (ii.)
our financing plans; (iii.)
trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations; (iv.)
our growth strategy and operating strategy; (v.) the declaration and payment of dividends; (vi.)
the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.)
raw material shortages and lead times; (viii.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the seasonality of our business; (x.)
the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.)
the amount and frequency of warranty claims; and (xii.)
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
The words “may,” “would,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “plans” and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our ability to control, and that actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors discussed herein, including those discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2017 in the section entitled “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” and "Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and those factors discussed in detail in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP").
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments affecting the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
On a regular basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to total costs on long-term construction-type contracts, costs to be incurred for product warranties and extended maintenance contracts, bad debts, excess and obsolete inventory, income taxes, share-based compensation, goodwill impairment and contingencies.
Our estimates are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
OVERVIEW
We design, manufacture and sell a wide range of display systems to customers throughout the world.
We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products.
Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit.
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.
Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 4.
Segment Disclosure" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of large project orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
Large project orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Net sales and gross profit percentages also have fluctuated due to other seasonal factors, including the impact of holidays, which primarily affects our third fiscal quarter.
Our gross margins on large custom and large standard orders tend to fluctuate more than on small standard orders.
Large product orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins.
Although we follow the percentage of completion method of recognizing revenues for large custom orders, we nevertheless have experienced fluctuations in operating results and expect our future results of operations will be subject to similar fluctuations.
Our backlog consists of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders we expect to fill within the next 24 months.
Orders, which we define as a receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits, are booked and included in backlog.
As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be booked until all required contractual documents and deposits are received.
In addition, order bookings can vary significantly on a quarterly basis as a result of the timing of large orders.
Because order backlog may be subject to extended delivery schedules, orders may be canceled, and orders have varied estimated
profitability, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales or net income.
Backlog can fluctuate due to large order booking timing and seasonality.
Backlog is not a measure defined by GAAP, and our methodology for determining backlog may vary from the methodology used by other companies in determining their backlog amounts.
For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the effects of those pronouncements on our financial results, refer to "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation and Summary of Critical Accounting Policies" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
GENERAL
Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems.
We measure our success through estimated market share based on estimated market demand for digital displays and generating profits over the long-term.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.
These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.
Increases in user adoption, the acceptance of a variety of digital solutions, and the decline of digital solution pricing over the years has increased the size of the global market.
With this positive demand, strong competition exists across all of our business units, which causes margin constraints.
Projects with multimillion-dollar revenue potential also attract competition, which generally reduces profitability.
We organize around customer segments and geographic regions as further described in "Note 4.
Segment Disclosure" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Each business segment also has unique key growth drivers and challenges.
•Standard display product market growth due to market adoption and lower product costs, which drive marketplace expansion.
Standard display products are used to attract or communicate with customers and potential customers of retail, commercial, and other establishments.
Pricing and economic conditions are the principal factors that impact our success in this business unit.
We utilize a reseller network to distribute our standard products.
•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country.
Increased demand is possible from retailers, quick serve restaurants, petroleum businesses, and other nationwide organizations.
•Increasing interest in spectaculars, which include very large and sometimes highly customized displays as part of entertainment venues such as casinos, shopping centers, cruise ships and Times Square type locations.
•Dynamic messaging systems demand growth due to market adoption and marketplace expansion.
•The use of architectural lighting products for commercial buildings, which real estate owners use to add accents or effects to an entire side or circumference of a building to communicate messages or to decorate the building.
•The continued deployment of digital billboards as Out-of-Home ("OOH") companies continue developing new sites and replacing digital billboards which are reaching end of life.
This is dependent on there being no adverse changes in the digital billboard regulatory environment restricting future deployments of billboards, as well as maintaining our current market share of the business concentrated in a few large OOH companies.
•Replacement cycles within each of these areas.
•Facilities spending more on larger display systems to enhance the game-day and event experience for attendees.
•Lower product costs, driving an expansion of the marketplace.
•Our product and service offerings, which remain the most integrated and comprehensive offerings in the industry.
•The competitive nature of sports teams, which strive to out-perform their competitors with display systems.
•The desire for high-definition video displays, which typically drives larger displays or higher resolution displays, both of which increase the average transaction size.
•Dynamic messaging systems needs throughout a sports facility.
•Replacement cycles within each of these areas.
•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays versus traditional scoreboards.
•Increased demand for different types of displays and dynamic messaging systems, such as message centers at schools to communicate to students, parents and the broader community.
•The use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.
Each of our business units is impacted by adverse economic conditions in different ways and to different degrees.
The effects of an adverse economy are generally less severe on our sports related business as compared to our other businesses, although in severe economic downturns, the sports business also can be seriously impacted.
Our Commercial and International business units are highly dependent on economic conditions in general.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
COMPARISON OF THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 27, 2018 AND JANUARY 28, 2017
Net Sales
The decrease in orders for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of decreases in the billboard niche and decreases in the on-premise niche due to a number of factors, including competitive market pricing, a delay of national account-based opportunities, and the natural volatility of large project timing.
Orders decreased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to variability in order timing.
Orders decreased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to fewer video project orders which have larger average selling prices in this segment during the period.
Orders for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago decreased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing.
Orders increased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the volatility of large order timing.
Backlog
The product order backlog as of January 27, 2018 was $151 million as compared to $170 million as of January 28, 2017 and $155 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Historically, our backlog varies due to the seasonality of our business, the timing of large projects, and customer delivery schedules for these orders.
The backlog as of January 27, 2018 decreased from January 28, 2017 in our Commercial, Live Events and Transportation business units, increased in our International business unit, and remained relatively flat in our High School Park and Recreation business unit.
Gross Profit
Gross profit is net sales less cost of goods sold.
Cost of goods sold consists primarily of inventory, consumables, salaries, other employee-related costs, facilities-related costs for manufacturing locations, machinery and equipment maintenance and depreciation, site sub-contractors, warranty costs, and other service delivery expenses.
Selling Expense
Selling expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, travel and entertainment expenses, facilities-related costs for sales and service offices, bad debt expenses, third-party commissions and expenditures for marketing efforts, including the costs of collateral materials, conventions and trade shows, product demos, and supplies.
Other Operating Expenses
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional fees, shareholder relations costs, facilities and equipment-related costs for administrative departments, training costs, and the costs of supplies.
General and administrative expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to decreases in personnel expenses.
Product design and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional services, facilities costs and equipment-related costs and supplies.
Product development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications.
These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points.
We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings.
Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays.
Our costs for product development represent an allocated amount of costs based on time charges, professional services, materials costs and the overhead of our engineering departments.
Generally, a significant portion of our engineering time is spent on product development, while the rest is allocated to large contract work and is included in cost of goods sold.
Product development expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increased labor costs and professional services assigned to product development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets.
To deliver value to our customers and serve the markets' expectations, we plan to increase the level of expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions for the remainder of fiscal 2018 as compared to prior years.
Other Income and Expenses
Interest income, net in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period one year ago remained relatively flat.
As a result of the volatility of working capital needs and changes in investing and financing activities, along with changes in the interest rate environment, it is difficult to project changes in interest income.
Income Taxes
The current-year rate was significantly impacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017.
Most notably, the Tax Act reduced the statutory federal income tax rate for corporations from 35% to 21%.
Because we file our tax return based on our fiscal year, the statutory tax rate for our 2018 tax return will be a blended rate of approximately 30.4%.
In addition to the effect of the lower overall federal tax rate, the Tax Act resulted in a $3.7 million one-time expense for the estimated re-measurement of our net deferred tax asset and a $0.6 million estimated one-time transition tax on certain undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries in the quarter ended January 27, 2018.
Any additional impacts from the enactment of the Tax Act will be recorded as they are identified during the measurement period as provided for in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 ("SAB 118").
Excluding the impact of this one-time expense, our effective tax rate was 46.9% for the three months ended January 27, 2018.
We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 30% for the remainder of our fiscal year.
In fiscal 2019, we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 21%, exclusive of any SAB 118 changes in estimate.
COMPARISON OF THE NINE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 27, 2018 AND JANUARY 28, 2017
Net Sales
The decrease in orders for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of decreases in the on-premise and spectacular niches due to a number of factors including competitive market pricing, a delay of national account-based opportunities during the nine months ended January 27, 2018 as compared to the same period last year, and the natural volatility of large project timing.
Orders increased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to an increased number of projects in professional sport arenas.
Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to fewer large sports video projects awarded during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to variability caused by large order timing.
Orders increased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the volatility of large order timing.
Gross Profit
Gross profit is net sales less cost of goods sold.
Cost of goods sold consists primarily of inventory, consumables, salaries, other employee-related costs, facilities-related costs for manufacturing locations, machinery and equipment maintenance and depreciation, site sub-contractors, warranty costs, and other service delivery expenses.
Selling Expense
Selling expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, travel and entertainment expenses, facilities-related costs for sales and service offices, bad debt expenses, third-party commissions and expenditures for marketing efforts, including the costs of collateral materials, conventions and trade shows, product demos, and supplies.
Other Operating Expenses
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional fees, shareholder relations costs, facilities and equipment-related costs for administrative departments, training costs, and the costs of supplies.
General and administrative expenses in the nine months ended January 27, 2018 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increases in personnel expenses and information technology software and hardware expenses.
Product design and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional services, facilities costs and equipment-related costs and supplies.
Product development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications.
These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points.
We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings.
Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays.
Our costs for product development represent an allocated amount of costs based on time charges, professional services, materials costs and the overhead of our engineering departments.
Generally, a significant portion of our engineering time is spent on product development, while the rest is allocated to large contract work and is included in cost of goods sold.
Product development expenses in the nine months ended January 27, 2018 as compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to increased labor costs and professional services assigned to product development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets.
To deliver value to our customers and serve the markets' expectations, we plan to increase the level of expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions for the remainder of fiscal 2018 as compared to prior years.
Other Income and Expenses
Interest income, net in the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago decreased as a result of lower long-term receivables which bear imputed interest rates.
As a result of the volatility of working capital needs and changes in investing and financing activities, along with changes in the interest rate environment, it is difficult to project changes in interest income.
Income Taxes
Our effective tax rate was 47.2 percent for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 as compared to an effective tax rate of 31.9 percent for the nine months ended January 28, 2017.
The current-year rate was significantly impacted by the Tax Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017.
Most notably, the Tax Act reduced the statutory federal income tax rate for corporations from 35% to 21%.
Because we file our tax return based on our fiscal year, the statutory tax rate for our 2018 tax return will be a blended rate of approximately 30.4%.
In addition to the effect of the lower overall federal tax rate, the Tax Act resulted in a $3.7 million one-time expense for the estimated re-measurement of our net deferred tax asset and a $0.6 million estimated one-time transition tax on certain undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries in the quarter ended January 27, 2018.
Any additional impacts from the enactment of the Tax Act will be recorded as they are identified during the measurement period as provided for in accordance with SAB 118.
Excluding the impact of this one-time expense, our effective tax rate was 23% for the nine months ended January 27, 2018, and we expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 48% for the remainder of our fiscal year.
In fiscal 2019, we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 21%, exclusive of any SAB 118 changes in estimate.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Net cash provided by operating activities was $27.0 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $45.4 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
The $18.4 million decrease in cash from operating activities from the first nine months of fiscal 2017 to the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was the net result of changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $18.6 million, a $1.4 million decrease in depreciation, amortization and impairment, a $1.2 million gain on the sale of our non-digital division, a $0.9 million decrease in the provision for doubtful accounts, and a $0.1 million decrease in net income, adjusted by an increase of $3.7 million in deferred income taxes and a $0.1 million increase in other non-cash items, net.
Overall, changes in operating assets and liabilities can be impacted by the timing of cash flows on large orders, which can cause significant short-term fluctuations in inventory, accounts receivables, accounts payable, customer deposits, costs and earnings in excess of billings, and various other operating assets and liabilities.
Variability in costs and earnings in excess of billings and billings in excess of costs relates to the timing of billings on construction-type contracts and revenue recognition, which can vary significantly depending on contractual payment terms and build and installation schedules.
Balances are also impacted by the seasonality of the sports markets.
Working capital was $142.9 million and $127.1 million at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
The changes in working capital, particularly changes in accounts receivable, accounts payable, inventory, and costs in excess of billings and billings in excess of costs, and the seasonality of the sports market can have a significant impact on the amount of net cash provided by operating activities largely due to the timing of payments and receipts.
We have historically financed working capital needs through a combination of cash flow from operations and borrowings under bank credit agreements.
We have used and expect to continue to use cash balances to meet our short-term working capital requirements.
On large product orders, the time between order acceptance and project completion may extend up to and exceed 24 months depending on the amount of custom work and a customer’s delivery needs.
We often receive down payments or progress payments on these product orders.
To the extent these payments are not sufficient to fund the costs and other expenses associated with these orders, we use working capital and bank borrowings to finance these cash requirements.
On November 15, 2016, we entered into a credit agreement and a related revolving note with a U.S. bank.
The agreement and note have a maturity date of November 15, 2019.
The revolving amount of the agreement and note is $35.0 million, including up to $15.0 million for commercial and standby letters of credits.
The interest rate ranges from LIBOR plus 145 basis points to LIBOR plus 195 basis points depending on the ratio of our interest-bearing debt to EBITDA.
EBITDA is defined as net income before deductions for interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, all as determined in accordance with GAAP.
The effective interest rate was 3.0 percent at January 27, 2018.
We are assessed a loan fee equal to 0.125 percent per annum on any unused portion of the loan.
As of January 27, 2018, there were no advances to us under the loan portion of the line of credit, and the balance of letters of credit outstanding was approximately $10.7 million.
•A minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 2 to 1 at the end of any fiscal year.
The ratio is equal to (a) EBITDA less dividends or other distributions (with the exception of any U.S. bank approved special cash dividend), a capital expenditure reserve of $6 million, and income tax expenses paid in cash, but excluding cash used to repurchase any Daktronics, Inc. stock over (b) all principal and interest payments with respect to debt, excluding principal payments on the line of credit; and
•A ratio of interest-bearing debt, excluding any marketing obligations, to EBITDA of less than 1 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter.
On November 15, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated loan agreement and a continuing and unlimited guaranty agreement with another U.S. bank which supports our credit needs outside of the United States.
The loan and guaranty have a maturity date of November 15, 2019.
The revolving amount of the loan is $20.0 million.
We intend to use the borrowings under the agreement to support credit needs for general corporate purposes outside the United States.
This credit agreement is unsecured.
It contains the same covenants as the credit agreement on the line of credit and contains an inter creditor agreement whereby the debt has a cross default provision with the primary credit agreement.
Total credit allowed between the two credit agreements is limited to $40.0 million.
The interest rate is equal to LIBOR plus 1.5 percent.
As of January 27, 2018, there were no advances outstanding under the loan agreement and approximately $2.7 million in bank guarantees under this line of credit.
As of January 27, 2018, we were in compliance with all applicable bank loan covenants.
Although we expect to continue to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, the nature and amounts of dividends will be reviewed regularly and declared by the Board at its discretion.
We are sometimes required to obtain performance bonds for display installations, and we have a bonding line available through a surety company for an aggregate of $150.0 million in bonded work outstanding.
If we were unable to complete the work and our customer would call upon the bond for payment, the surety company would subrogate its loss to Daktronics.
At January 27, 2018, we had $8.3 million of bonded work outstanding against this line.
Our business growth and profitability improvement strategies depend on investments in capital expenditures.
We are projecting capital expenditures to be less than $20 million for fiscal 2018 for purchases of manufacturing equipment for new or enhanced product production, expanded capacity, investments in quality and reliability equipment, and continued information infrastructure investments.
We believe our working capital available from all sources will be adequate to meet the cash requirements of our operations in the foreseeable future.
If our growth extends beyond current expectations, profitability does not continue, or if we make any strategic investments, we may need to increase our credit facilities or seek other means of financing.
We anticipate we will be able to obtain any needed funds under commercially reasonable terms from our current lenders or other sources, although there can be no guarantee of such.
Item 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
Share Repurchases
During the nine months ended January 27, 2018, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock.
