Item 3.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

Our results of operations could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets.
We derive net sales in U.S. dollars and other currencies including Canadian dollars, Euros, Chinese renminbi, British pounds, Australian dollars, Brazilian reais or other currencies.
For the three months ended July 28, 2018, 21.1 percent of net sales were derived in currencies other than U.S. dollars.
We have expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars relating to our sales, service, and manufacturing operations.
The cost of raw materials derived from international sources can be impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency.
We have foreign currency cash accounts to operate our global business.
These accounts are also impacted by changes in foreign currency rates.
As of July 28, 2018, we had $7.6 million denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
If we believe currency risk in any foreign location or specific sales or purchase transaction is significant, we utilize foreign exchange hedging contracts to manage our exposure to the currency fluctuations.
The notional amount of the foreign currency agreements as of July 28, 2018 was $11.3 million, and all contracts mature within 14 months.
These contracts are marked to market each balance sheet date and are not designated as hedges.
See "Note 14.
Derivative Financial Instruments" of the Notes to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further details.
Over the long term, net sales to international markets are expected to increase as a percentage of total net sales and, consequently, a greater portion of our business could be denominated in foreign currencies.
As a result, operating results may become more subject to fluctuations based upon changes in the exchange rates of certain currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar.
To the extent we engage in international sales denominated in U.S. dollars, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets.
This effect is also impacted by sources of raw materials from international sources and costs of our sales, service, and manufacturing locations outside the U.S. We estimate that a 10 percent change in all foreign exchange rates would impact our reported income before taxes by approximately $1.0 million.
This sensitivity analysis disregards the possibilities that rates can move in opposite directions and that losses from one geographic area may be offset by gains from another geographic area.
We will continue to monitor and minimize our exposure to currency fluctuations and, when appropriate, use financial hedging techniques to minimize the effect of these fluctuations.
However, exchange rate fluctuations as well as differing economic conditions, changes in political climates, and other rules and regulations could adversely affect our ability to effectively hedge exchange rate fluctuations in the future.
Interest Rate Risks

Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our marketing obligations and long-term accounts receivable.
As of July 28, 2018, our outstanding marketing obligations were $0.4 million, all of which were in fixed rate obligations.
In connection with the sale of certain display systems, we have entered into various types of financing with customers.
The aggregate amounts due from customers include an imputed interest element.
The majority of these financings carry fixed rates of interest.
As of July 28, 2018, our outstanding long-term receivables were $3.0 million.
Each 25 basis point increase in interest rates would have an associated immaterial annual opportunity cost.
The following table provides maturities and weighted average interest rates on our financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates.
Of our $15.9 million in cash balances at July 28, 2018, $8.3 million were denominated in U.S. dollars, of which $4.4 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
At July 28, 2018, we had an additional $7.6 million in cash balances denominated in foreign currencies, of which $6.2 million were maintained in accounts of our foreign subsidiaries.
A portion of the cash held in foreign accounts is used to collateralize outstanding bank guarantees issued by our foreign subsidiaries.
Commodity Risk


Item 4.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of July 28, 2018, which is the end of the period covered by this Report.
Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of July 28, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Based on the evaluation described in the foregoing paragraph, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that during the quarter ended July 28, 2018, there was no change in our internal control over financial reporting which has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Not applicable.
Item 1A.
RISK FACTORS

The discussion of our business and operations included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read together with the risk factors described in Item 1A.
of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject.
These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this Report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner.
New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial condition or financial results.
Item 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

Share Repurchases

During the three months ended July 28, 2018, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock.
Item 3.
