fls.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.


item1.txt
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.


item2.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.
Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A.
We help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape, bringing more than thirty-five years of experience supporting the world’s most respected service providers.
We make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter as they work to evolve their businesses from a single-product offering to highly complex and competitive multi-product offerings, while also requiring increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences for their customers.
We offer BSS and revenue management, customer experience and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
Key Impact of U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act As discussed in Note 2 to our Financial Statements, in January 2018 we adopted ASU 606, a single comprehensive model which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP, utilizing the cumulative effect approach.
Under the new guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
Certain deferred contract costs that had been included in our client contracts and other current and non-current assets on our Balance Sheet were reclassified and presented separately as a non-current client contract asset, net of related amortization.
Investments in client contracts on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows have been reclassified to operating activities from investing activities.
This represents a purchase price of slightly over one times historical revenues.
Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
Diluted EPS for the second quarter of 2018 was $0.46 compared to $0.35 for the second quarter of 2017, with the increase mainly attributed a lower effective income tax rate, primarily resulting from the U.S. Tax Reform enacted in December 2017.
As of June 30, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $186.4 million, as compared to $222.1 million as of March 31, 2018 and $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017.
See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows.
Client Concentration.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our largest clients, which are Comcast, Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”), and DISH Network Corporation (“DISH”).
The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.
Cost of Revenues.
Variability in quarterly revenues and operating results are inherent characteristics of companies that sell software licenses and perform professional services.
As a result, we incurred a loss of $0.8 million related to the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.


item3.txt
short-term investments, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The interest rates under our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
Refer to Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.


item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.


