fls.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.


item1.txt
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.


item2.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.
Drawing from real-world knowledge and unparalleled expertise, we design and implement business solutions that make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter so they can focus on evolving their businesses to provide highly sophisticated and competitive multi-product offerings while also delivering increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences that meet the ever-changing demands of their customers across all stages of the customer lifecycle.
We offer revenue management, customer experience, and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
We generate approximately 60% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, healthcare, logistics, and transportation.
Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 we generated 87% of our revenues from the Americas region, 9% of our revenues from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, and 4% of our revenues from the Asia Pacific region.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASC 842”), which requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for all leases, including operating leases, with a term greater than twelve months on its balance sheet.
Transaction fees are primarily comprised of interchange and other payment-related fees that we pay, in conjunction with the delivery of service to clients under our payment services contracts, to third-party payment processors and financial institutions.
Because we control the integrated service provided under our payment services client contracts, these transaction fees are presented gross, and not netted against revenues.
Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
Operating income for the third quarter of 2019 was $33.4 million, or a 13.3% operating margin percentage, compared to $25.7 million, or a 12.0% operating margin percentage for the third quarter of 2018.
The increase in operating income is primarily a result of higher revenues generated in the third quarter of 2019.
As of September 30, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $172.0 million, as compared to $131.5 million as of June 30, 2019 and $162.9 million as of December 31, 2018.
Our cash flows from operating activities for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 were $79.1 million.
See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows.
Client Concentration.
See our 2018 10-K for additional discussion of our business relationships and contractual terms with Comcast and Charter.
Comcast.
The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.
Cost of Revenues.


item3.txt
The interest rates on our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.
Our cash and cash equivalents as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $160.6 million and $139.3 million, respectively.
Certain of our cash balances are “swept” into overnight money market accounts on a daily basis, and at times, any excess funds are invested in low-risk, somewhat longer term, cash equivalent instruments and short-term investments.


item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.
There were no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2018 Form 10-K during the third quarter of 2019.


