fls.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.


item1.txt
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.


item2.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.
We are one of the world’s leading revenue management and digital monetization, customer experience, and payment solutions providers, and a trusted partner to some of the most well-known communications, media, and entertainment companies around the globe.
We leverage more than 35 years of experience to help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape.
Drawing from real-world knowledge and unparalleled expertise, we design and implement business solutions that make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter so they can focus on evolving their businesses to provide highly sophisticated and competitive multi-product offerings while also delivering increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences that meet the ever-changing demands of their customers across all stages of the customer lifecycle.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
We generate approximately 55% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, healthcare, logistics, and transportation.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASC 842”), which requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for all leases, including operating leases, with a term greater than twelve months on its balance sheet.
Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
Revenues.
As of March 31, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $141.9 million, as compared to $162.9 million as of December 31, 2018.
See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows.
Client Concentration.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our two largest clients, which are Comcast and Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”).
Comcast.
In November 2018, Comcast exercised the first of their two one-year renewal options extending the term of their agreement through June 30, 2020.
Terms of the extension remain consistent with the financial terms and obligations under the existing agreement.
The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.
Software and Services Revenues.
Maintenance Revenues.
The cost of cloud and related solutions for the first quarter of 2019 increased 32% to $114.7 million, from $86.9 million for the first quarter of 2018.


item3.txt
The interest rates under our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.
Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments.
Our cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $123.6 million and $139.3 million, respectively.


item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.


part2.txt
Item 1.
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.


