fls.txt
Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A.


item1.txt
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.


item2.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.
Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A.
We help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape, bringing more than thirty-five years of experience supporting the world’s most respected service providers.
We make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter as they work to evolve their businesses from a single-product offering to highly complex and competitive multi-product offerings, while also requiring increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences for their customers.
We offer revenue management, customer experience, and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 we generated approximately 85% of our revenues from the Americas region, approximately 10% of our revenues from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, and approximately 5% of our revenues from the Asia Pacific region.
Under the new guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
Certain deferred contract costs that had been included in our client contracts and other current and non-current assets on our Balance Sheet were reclassified and presented separately as a non-current client contract asset, net of related amortization.
Investments in client contracts on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows have been reclassified to operating activities from investing activities.
Since we adopted ASC 606 using the cumulative effect method, prior period comparative information in our Financial Statements have not been adjusted and continue to be as previously reported.
Forte Payment Systems, Inc. We acquired Forte for a purchase price of approximately $85 million ($80 million, net of cash acquired), and held back approximately $13 million in cash subject to certain tax filings.
This represents a purchase price approximately equal to Forte’s 2018 projected revenues.
As we have not completed the valuation analysis and calculations necessary to finalize the required purchase price allocations, which may include allocations to goodwill and other intangible assets such as trademarks and trade names, developed technology, noncompetition agreements, and customer-related assets, the expected impact of the Forte acquisition is based on estimates for the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
Revenues.
Diluted EPS for the third quarter of 2018 was $0.49 compared to $0.44 for the third quarter of 2017, with the increase primarily attributed to a lower effective income tax rate resulting primarily from the Tax Reform Act enacted in December 2017.
As of September 30, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $199.3 million, as compared to $186.4 million as of June 30, 2018 and $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017.
See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows.
Client Concentration.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our largest clients, which are Comcast, Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”), and DISH Network Corporation (“DISH”).


item3.txt
The interest rates under our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.
Our cash and cash equivalents as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $197.2 million and $122.3 million, respectively.


item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Risk Factors in our 2017 Form 10-K.


