Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.
Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A.
We help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape, bringing more than thirty-five years of experience supporting the world’s most respected service providers.
We make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter as they work to evolve their businesses from a single-product offering to highly complex and competitive multi-product offerings, while also requiring increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences for their customers.
We offer BSS and revenue management, customer experience and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
We generate approximately 70% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, logistics, and transportation.
Key Impact of U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act As discussed in Note 2 to our Financial Statements, in January 2018 we adopted ASU 606, a single comprehensive model which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP, utilizing the cumulative effect approach.
Under the new guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
Certain deferred contract costs that had been included in our client contracts and other current and non-current assets on our Balance Sheet were reclassified and presented separately as a non-current client contract asset, net of related amortization.
This represents a purchase price of slightly over one times historical revenues.
Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
The lower first quarter 2017 income tax rate of 9% was primarily the result of an approximately $5 million net income tax benefit resulting from Comcast’s exercise of 1.4 million vested stock warrants in January 2017.
As of March 31, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $222.1 million, as compared $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017.The interest rates under our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
Refer to Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.Item 1.