fls.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.


item1.txt
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.


item2.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.
Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A.
Drawing from real-world knowledge and unparalleled expertise, we design and implement business solutions that make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter so they can focus on evolving their businesses to provide highly sophisticated and competitive multi-product offerings while also delivering increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences that meet the ever-changing demands of their customers across all stages of the customer lifecycle.
We offer revenue management, customer experience, and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASC 842”), which requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for all leases, including operating leases, with a term greater than twelve months on its balance sheet.
Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
Revenues.
Operating income for the second quarter of 2019 was $30.3 million, or a 12.3% operating margin percentage, compared to $24.1 million, or an 11.3% operating margin percentage for the second quarter of 2018.
As of June 30, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $131.5 million, as compared to $141.9 million as of March 31, 2019 and $162.9 million as of December 31, 2018.
Our cash flows from operating activities for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 were $15.6 million.
See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows.
Client Concentration.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our two largest clients, which are Comcast and Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”).
Comcast.
Terms of the extension remain consistent with the financial terms and obligations under the existing agreement.
The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.
Variability in quarterly revenues and operating results are inherent characteristics of companies that sell software licenses and perform professional services.
Cost of Maintenance (Exclusive of Depreciation).
Loss on Extinguishment of Debt.


item3.txt
The interest rates on our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.
Our cash and cash equivalents as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $113.8 million and $139.3 million, respectively.
Certain of our cash balances are “swept” into overnight money market accounts on a daily basis, and at times, any excess funds are invested in low-risk, somewhat longer term, cash equivalent instruments and short-term investments.


item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.
Risk Factors in our 2018 Form 10-K.


