   ·    Network systems products are used to build and upgrade computing and internet networks.
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2019 primarily related to the fiscal 2018 grant of PSUs, which had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2018).
   ·    Base station infrastructure products are used to build, repair and upgrade wireless telecommunications systems.
 Note 7. Business Segments
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
Base station infrastructure service offerings include connector installation, custom jumper assembly, site kitting and logistics integration.
 For the fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2018, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and the Company’s largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 14.9% and 9.1% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
For the fiscal quarter ended December 24, 2017, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and the Company’s largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 9.2% and 8.9% of consolidated revenue, respectively. The following table summarizes our cash flows provided by or used in operating, investing and financing activities for the nine months ended December 30, 2018 and December 24, 2017.
 Total Revenues.
We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.
 Total Revenues.
The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above.
 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
There was an increase of $0.5 million in corporate support expense, primarily related to bad debt expenses, an increase of $0.3 million in information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives, and an increase of $0.2 million in compensation and benefits expense, during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $4.0 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Item 1.