   ·    Base Station Infrastructure - Base station infrastructure products are used to build, repair and upgrade wireless telecommunications systems. Products include base station antennas, cable and transmission lines, small towers, lightning protection devices, connectors, power systems, miscellaneous hardware, and mobile antennas. Base station infrastructure service offerings include connector installation, custom jumper assembly, site kitting and logistics integration.  
 For the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, no customer accounted for more than 10% of total consolidated revenues.  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (TESSCO, we, or the Company), architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless systems. The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology. Approximately 97% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States. The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange. Almost all of the Company’s sales are made in United States Dollars.  
 Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  
   ·    Installation, Test and Maintenance - Installation, test and maintenance products are used to install, tune, maintain and repair wireless communications equipment. Products include sophisticated analysis equipment and various frequency, voltage- and power-measuring devices, as well as an assortment of tools, hardware, GPS, safety and replacement and component parts and supplies required by service technicians.  
 The retail segment consists of the retail market which includes retailers, independent dealer agents and carriers.   
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2020 related to the fiscal 2019 grant of PSUs, which also had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019). The PSUs were cancelled because the applicable fiscal 2019 performance targets were not fully attained. Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.  
 Note 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presentation   Our first quarter fiscal year 2020 gross profit decreased by 17.7%, compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The decrease in gross profit was primarily the result of the decrease in revenue discussed above. Gross 
 Selling, General, Administrative and Restructuring Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $864,800 for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased from 19.2% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, to 21.4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020.  
 The decrease in our selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a decrease of $0.7 million in compensation and benefits expense and a decrease of $0.6 million in rewards expense, during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019. These decreases were partially offset by the $0.3 million increase in distribution support expense, primarily related to variable operations costs related to large carrier customers, and the $0.2 million increase in occupancy expense.  
 Net cash used in investing activities of $1.9 million for the first three months of fiscal 2020 increased from cash used of $1.4 million for the first three months of fiscal 2019. Cash used in both periods was due to capital expenditures largely comprised of investments in information technology.   
margin for the first quarter fiscal year 2020 and fiscal year 2019 was 19.3% and 20.3%, respectively. The decline in gross margin was a result of the impact of tariffs and inventory write-offs. Selling, General and Administrative expenses for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 were down 3.0% compared to the first quarter fiscal year 2019. The decrease is related to decreased compensation, benefits, and rewards expense. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in occupancy expense and distribution support expense. The Company also incurred a restructuring charge related to severance expenses. As a result, net income decreased by $3.7 million or 315.2% and diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.42 or 323.1% compared to the prior-year quarter.  
 Our first quarter fiscal 2020 revenue decreased by 13.4% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019. First quarter fiscal 2020 revenue in the commercial segment and retail segment decreased 6.8% and 28.8%, respectively, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2019. The decline in our commercial segment revenue was driven by a decrease in our public carrier market due to the project-oriented nature of this business. Several large customers either adjusted their forecasts or pushed out their product requirements from the first fiscal quarter into the remainder of the year. For the retail segment, revenue decreased due to significantly lower revenues from one of our more significant retail customers following its recent acquisition, change in business model and subsequent transition of its business elsewhere, as well as ongoing overall market softness. Among our product categories, revenue decreased in our base station infrastructure, network systems, installation, test and maintenance, and mobile device accessories categories by 7.1%, 1.0%, 18.9% and 28.7%, respectively, for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, as compared to the same quarter last year.   
 We used $2.0 million of net cash from operating activities for the first three months of fiscal 2020, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $1.7 million for the first three months of fiscal 2019. This fiscal 2020 outflow was driven by a net loss and an increase in inventory, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and a decrease in accounts receivable. Both current and potential opportunities within our public carrier business caused a significant investment in inventory. Accounts payable also increased in response to higher inventory levels.    Item 5. Other Information.   Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  
 None.  