In addition, in April 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel; and in August 2015, we completed our acquisition of Micrel.
We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.
We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications.
Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including general purpose and specialized microcontrollers, development tools and related software, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, wired and wireless connectivity products, field-programmable gate array (FPGA) products, timing systems, memory products and Flash-IP licensing.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.In addition, in April 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel; and in August 2015, we completed our acquisition of Micrel.
We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.
We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.