When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act); •property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.
In addition, in April 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel; and in August 2015, we completed our acquisition of Micrel.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.
We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.
We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries.•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act); •property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.
In addition, in April 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel; and in August 2015, we completed our acquisition of Micrel.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.
We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.