fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Microchip Technology Incorporated and its majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries (the Company).
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
All dollar amounts in the financial statements and tables in these notes, except per share amounts, are stated in millions of U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
The information furnished herein reflects all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal recurring nature and necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods reported.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in audited consolidated financial statements have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such SEC rules and regulations.
As further discussed in Note 3, on May 29, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Microsemi Corporation (Microsemi) and the Company's first quarter fiscal 2019 financial results include Microsemi's results beginning as of such acquisition date.
current incurred loss approach, which required waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of having been incurred.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
Note 3. Business Acquisitions On May 29, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
Microsemi offers a comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor and system solutions for aerospace and defense, communications, data center and industrial markets.
The Company's primary reason for this acquisition was to expand the Company's range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending its served available market.
The Company retained independent third-party appraisers to assist management in its valuation of the acquired assets and liabilities.
Purchased intangible assets include core and developed technology, in-process research and development, customer-related intangibles, acquisition-date backlog and other intangible assets.
In-process research and development is capitalized until such time as the related projects are completed or abandoned at which time the capitalized amounts will begin to be amortized or written off.
Customer-related intangible assets consist of Microsemi's contractual relationships and customer loyalty related to its distributor and end-customer relationships.


item2.txt
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document.
On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized in our consolidated financial statements $3.23 billion in liabilities of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
We incurred $22.0 million in costs related to the acquisition.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Note 16 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding legal proceedings.
We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.
We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.
We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.
In particular, in connection with our Microsemi and Atmel acquisitions, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation, governmental investigations and disputes related to such businesses and transactions.
Further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner.


