When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
On April 4, 2016, we acquired Atmel, which was our largest and most complex acquisition ever.
In addition, in August 2015, we completed our acquisition of Micrel; in July 2014, we completed our acquisition of a controlling interest in ISSC; in April 2014, we completed our acquisition of Supertex, Inc.; and in August 2012, we completed our acquisition of SMSC.
We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.
We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
•Our expectation that our days of inventory levels will increase modestly in the March 2018 quarter.
Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.
We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries.On April 4, 2016, we acquired Atmel, which was our largest and most complex acquisition ever.
In addition, in August 2015, we completed our acquisition of Micrel; in July 2014, we completed our acquisition of a controlling interest in ISSC; in April 2014, we completed our acquisition of Supertex, Inc.; and in August 2012, we completed our acquisition of SMSC.
We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.
We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.