fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Microchip Technology Incorporated and its majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries (the Company).
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
All dollar amounts in the financial statements and tables in these notes, except per share amounts, are stated in millions of U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
The information furnished herein reflects all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal recurring nature and necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods reported.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in audited consolidated financial statements have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such SEC rules and regulations.
current incurred loss approach, which required waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of having been incurred.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
Note 3. Business Acquisitions On May 29, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
The Company incurred $22.0 million in acquisition costs related to the acquisition.
Microsemi offers a comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor and system solutions for aerospace and defense, communications, data center and industrial markets.
The Company's primary reason for this acquisition was to expand the Company's range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending its served available market.
The excess of the purchase price over the value of the net tangible assets and intangible assets was recorded to goodwill.
The factors contributing to the recognition of goodwill were based upon the Company's conclusion that there are strategic and synergistic benefits that are expected to be realized from the acquisition.
None of the goodwill related to the Microsemi acquisition is deductible for tax purposes.
The Company retained independent third-party appraisers to assist management in its valuation of the acquired assets and liabilities.


item2.txt
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document.
On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized in our consolidated financial statements $3.23 billion in liabilities of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
As a result of the acquisition, Microsemi became a wholly owned subsidiary of Microchip.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.
In addition, in April 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel; and in August 2015, we completed our acquisition of Micrel.
We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.
We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.
In particular, in connection with our Microsemi and Atmel acquisitions, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation, governmental investigations and disputes related to such businesses and transactions.
See Note 16 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding such matters.


