fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.


item1.txt
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, and the cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments.
In the absence of a sales agreement, the Company’s standard terms and conditions at the time of acceptance of purchase orders apply.
The Company considers the customer purchase orders, governed by sales agreements or the Company’s standard terms and conditions, to be the contract with the customer.
In determining the transaction price, the Company evaluates whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled.
The Company recognizes revenue from sales agreements upon transferring control of a product to the customer.
Revenue recognized during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 for equipment sales was $7,109 and for software and licenses was $180.
Since each delivery constitutes a performance obligation, the Company allocates the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation based on the stand-alone selling price of the products.


item2.txt
This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we were awarded four more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile and echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array.
Overall revenue declined in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 56% during the three months ended March 31, 2018 from 57% for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with our Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents.
Despite our strong leadership position in the professional audio communications products market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market.
Revenue from our video products in the overall revenue mix has been improving on the back of a strong growth for our video products in 2016 that had continued in 2017.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance based media collaboration product and our high-end audio conferencing technology to provide growth in revenue in the near future.
We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware based video conferencing systems to software based video conferencing applications.


item4.txt
An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of March 31, 2018 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.


