fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.


item1.txt
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, and the cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, revenue increased by $271 and during the six months ended June 30, 2018 revenue decreased by $581 due to the impact of the adoption of the New Revenue Standard.
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments.
In the absence of a sales agreement, the Company’s standard terms and conditions at the time of acceptance of purchase orders apply.
The Company considers the customer purchase orders, governed by sales agreements or the Company’s standard terms and conditions, to be the contract with the customer.
In determining the transaction price, the Company evaluates whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled.
Although payment terms vary, most distributor agreements require payment within 45 days of invoicing.
The Company recognizes revenue from sales agreements upon transferring control of a product to the customer.


item2.txt
This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
In June 2018, at our industry’s largest trade show in North America, we introduced new audio products including significant additions to our CONVERGE® 2 audio conferencing platform, ceiling microphone array product line, and wireless microphone systems in the newly FCC allocated 537-563 MHz range.
While focusing on strategic innovation that we believe will strengthen our competitive position, and accelerated product development, we have also planned and initiated a company-wide cost cutting programs.
Overall revenue declined in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the three months and six months ended June 30, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 47% during the three months ended June 30, 2018 from 59% for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
The proportion of overhead costs absorbed into inventory has declined due to a sharp decline in our inventory purchasing activity causing increased amounts of overhead costs to be expensed.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents.
The patent infringement also has had a material adverse effect on our revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones, ceiling microphones and video products.
Despite our strong leadership position in the professional audio communications products market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the infringement of our patents by competitors, the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product and our high-end audio conferencing technology to distinguish us from our competitors' product offerings.


item4.txt
An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of June 30, 2018 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


part2.txt
Item 1.


