fls.txt
While these statements represent our current expectations, no assurance can be given that the results or events described in such statements will be achieved.


item1.txt
At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year.
The maximum available borrowing under the revolving credit facility at June 30, 2019 was $448.8 million.
We have $7.7 million outstanding on our letter of credit, of which $7.6 million is related to an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
Our 2016 Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) was designed to attract, retain and motivate key employees.
We are also required to recognize and measure leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented using a modified retrospective approach, with certain practical expedients available.
Through June 30, 2019, the Board of Directors has authorized the issuance of up to 15,148,321 shares under this Plan.
The terms of the credit agreement permit prepayment and termination of the loan commitments at any time, subject to certain conditions.
As such, our short-term lease expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 was $1.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 144,585 shares and 229,191 shares, respectively, issued from the exercise of stock options.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 0.2 years to 11 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 14 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year.
The acquisition was completed through an equity purchase agreement dated February 28, 2019, by and among Kforce Government Solutions, Inc and other beneficiaries and ManTech International Corporation.
Backlog is amortized straight-line over its estimated useful life of 1 year.
RSUs are not actual shares, but rather a right to receive shares in the future.
RSUs are not actual shares, but rather a right to receive shares in the future.
Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock.
We funded the acquisition with cash on hand and borrowings on our revolving credit facility.


item2.txt
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018.
Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible.
We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase during the remainder of 2019 due to increased bid and proposal spending in the second half of 2019.
The primary driver of the decrease in our effective tax rate was due to an increased benefit from our deferred compensation plan and stock option exercises as well as increased tax expense for 2018 related to a discrete item recognized in the second quarter of 2018.
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software.
Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 66 and 68 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest rates for borrowing under our revolving credit facility.


item4.txt
Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.


part2.txt



