fls.txt
While these statements represent our current expectations, no assurance can be given that the results or events described in such statements will be achieved.


item1.txt
The components of other intangible assets associated with the acquisition were customer relationships and backlog valued at $9.6 million and $2.3 million, respectively.
KGS was a wholly owned subsidiary of the publicly traded commercial technology and staffing company KForce, Inc.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
H2M Group (H2M)—On August 8, 2019, we completed the acquisition of H2M through a membership interest purchase agreement by and among H2M Group, HHM Holding LLC, and the Members and ManTech International Corporation.
Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, options to purchase 331,994 shares and 268,013 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $10.10 and $9.98, respectively.
The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our estimate for exposure due to compliance, contractual issues and bad debts related to prime contractors.
Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount.
The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our estimate for exposure due to compliance, contractual issues and bad debts related to prime contractors.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $9.0 million and $8.8 million, respectively.
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period.
Offices or divisions within an agency or department of the U.S. government may directly, or through a prime contractor, use our services as a separate customer as long as the customer has independent decision-making and contracting authority within its organization.


item2.txt
On September 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $33.3 million.
This project is ongoing, however, we expect to complete the review and implement changes in our methodology in the fourth quarter of 2019.
We adopted the requirements of ASU 2019-17, which had no effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year.
Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payments to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owed by us under residual guarantees.
We exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred from our lease payments.
As such, our business is impacted by the overall U.S. government budget and our ability to match our capabilities and offerings to the U.S. government's spending priorities.
Additionally, the amendments specify that Topic 718 applies to all share-based payment transactions in which a grantor acquires goods or services to be used or consumed in the grantor’s own operations by issuing share-based payment awards, and clarify that Topic 718 does not apply to share-based payments used to effectively provide (1) financing to the issuer or (2) awards granted in conjunction with selling goods or services to customers as part of a contract accounted for under Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates and policies from those discussed in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than lease accounting associated with the implementation of ASC 842, which is described below.
Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible.
The primary driver of the increase in our effective tax rate was the impact of discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2018, which were more favorable than discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2019.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts.


item3.txt
Under this policy, no investment securities can have maturities exceeding six months and the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days.


item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



