fls.txt
These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.


item1.txt
It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and in finalizing the closing working capital adjustment, the purchase price allocation for InfoZen is not complete as of March 31, 2018.
We do not believe that we have significant exposure to credit risk as billed receivable and unbilled receivables are primarily due from the U.S. government.
Backlog is amortized straight-line over its estimated useful life of 1 year.
The following table discloses when we expect to recognize the remaining performance obligation as revenue (in billions).
The credit agreement also includes an accordion feature that permits us to arrange with the lenders for the provision of additional commitments.
As of March 31, 2018, we accrued a liability of $2.3 million and recorded a receivable for $2.8 million.
In certain circumstances, revenue was recognized when contract amendments were not finalized.
Our 2016 Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) was designed to attract, retain and motivate key employees.
In certain circumstances, revenue was recognized when contract amendments were not finalized.
Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified.
Other incremental costs are expensed when incurred.
We have calculated our expected dividend yield based on an expected annual cash dividend of $1.00 per share.
The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our estimate for exposure to compliance, contractual issues and bad debts related to prime contractors.
The shares are not issued and the employee cannot sell or transfer shares prior to vesting and have no voting rights until the RSUs vest.
This “term structure” of future interest rates was then input into a numeric model to provide the equivalent risk-free rate to be used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model based on the expected term of the underlying grants.


item2.txt
For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract.
For a description of our operating leases, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method that applied to those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018.
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified.
We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method that applied to those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018.
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk


item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



