fls.txt



item1.txt
The shares are not issued and the employee cannot sell or transfer shares prior to vesting and have no voting rights until the RSUs vest.
We do not believe that we have significant exposure to credit risk as billed receivable and unbilled receivables are primarily due from the U.S. government.
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $9.98 and $5.65, respectively.
Option grants that vested during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 had a combined fair value of $0.7 million and $0.9 million, respectively.
In applying the two-class method, we determined that undistributed earnings should be allocated equally on a per share basis between Class A and Class B common stock.
Under that method, basic and diluted earnings per share data are presented for each class of common stock.
Option grants that vested during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 had a combined fair value of $0.7 million and $0.9 million, respectively.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
For long-term contracts, specifically described in the scope section of ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts, we applied the percentage of completion method.
Both parties filed appeals to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals.
For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract.
Our accounting for those items, as impacted by the TCJA, is now complete and no material adjustments were required.
The Defense Contract Audit Agency has substantially completed our incurred cost audits through 2012 with no material adjustments.
Employees who are granted RSUs do not receive dividend payments during the vesting period.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
Contract liabilities are reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheet on a net contract basis at the end of each reporting period.


item2.txt
Appropriations for the Department of Defense include near term expansions that aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors.
Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized.
Appropriations for the Department of Defense include near term expansions that aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors.
As of September 30, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility.
We expect to adopt the standard on January 1, 2019.
Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses.
For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process.
For agencies operating under the CR, funding appropriations are expected to be debated by Congress after the midterm elections.
We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt



