fls.txt



item1.txt
The credit agreement also includes an accordion feature that permits us to arrange with the lenders for the provision of additional commitments.
The maximum available borrowing under the revolving credit facility at June 30, 2018 was $455.2 million.
The Plan expires in March 2026.
Employees who are granted RSUs do not receive dividend payments during the vesting period.
The shares are not issued and the employee cannot sell or transfer shares prior to vesting and have no voting rights until the RSUs vest.
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $9.96 and $5.63, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $5.8 million.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) was enacted on December 22, 2017.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $6.8 million and $2.2 million, respectively.
RSUs—Under the Plan, we have issued RSUs.
We have one reportable segment.
We will reconsider the use of the Black-Scholes-Merton model if additional information becomes available in the future that indicates another model would be more appropriate or if grants issued in future periods have characteristics that cannot be reasonably estimated under this model.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations.
Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $4.3 million.
The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs).


item2.txt
The significant reduction in our effective tax rate for 2018 is due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, enacted on December 22, 2017, which reduced the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%.
The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is recognized as an adjustment to revenue under the cumulative catch-up method.
Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized.
We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title.
Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses.
It also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
For the six months ended June 30, 2017 our net cash used in investing activities was $6.9 million, which was used for capital expenditures.
Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our backlog was $7.8 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.


part2.txt



