fls.txt
Forward-looking statements often include the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "intend," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan" and words and terms of similar substance in connection with discussions of future events, situations or financial performance.


item1.txt
Under that method, basic and diluted earnings per share data are presented for each class of common stock.
The following tables disclose revenue (in thousands) by contract type, customer, prime or subcontractor and geography for the periods presented.
The preliminary purchase price was $115.0 million.
The maximum available borrowing under the revolving credit facility at March 31, 2019 was $396.3 million.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.
The Plan expires in March 2026.
In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments.
The credit agreement also includes an accordion feature that permits us to arrange with the lenders for the provision of additional commitments.
This “term structure” of future interest rates was then input into a numeric model to provide the equivalent risk-free rate to be used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model based on the expected term of the underlying grants.
The Plan expires in March 2026.
A restricted stock award is an issuance of shares that cannot be sold or transferred by the recipient until the vesting period lapses.
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $1.3 million and $1.1 million of stock-based compensation expense.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $3.2 million.
The related compensation expense is recognized over the service period and is based on the grant date fair value of the stock.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $18.0 million.
The following table summarizes the restricted stock activity during the year ended December 31, 2018.


item2.txt
Our significant accounting policies for 2018 are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the SEC.
We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, our net cash from (used in) operating activities was $47.3 million and $(18.0) million, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash flow from financing activities were $27.9 million, which were primarily due to net borrowings under our revolving credit facility and exercise of stock options partially offset by dividend payments.
The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2019 were $396.3 million.
We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives.
A number of federal civilian agencies, including the Departments of Homeland Security and State operated under a Continuing Resolution through late December and then endured a 35-day lapse in funding prior to receiving appropriations in mid-February.
We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered.
The decrease in interest expense was due to repayment of debt on our revolving line of credit.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest rates for borrowing under our revolving credit facility.


item4.txt
Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.


part2.txt



