fls.txt
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
Net sales increased 8% for the 13-week period ended March 30, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables.
The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth across most product lines in both OEM and aftermarket categories.
Auto segment revenue decreased 10% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
Gross profit dollars in the first quarter of 2019 increased 6% primarily due to growth in net sales while gross margin decreased 100 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
Gross margin increased in the auto segment and was relatively flat in the aviation and marine segments when compared to the year-ago quarter.
Advertising expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased media advertising in the outdoor segment and increased cooperative advertising in the fitness and marine segments.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $4 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $4 million less for the marine segment, and not significantly different for the outdoor, fitness, and auto segments.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and development expense increased 3% in absolute dollars and decreased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
This increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings.
Operating income increased 6% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
In the current quarter, the growth in operating income in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue and gross profit dollar growth, partially offset by increased operating expenses, as discussed above.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The $0.3 million currency gain recognized in the first quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against Taiwan Dollar and weakening against the British Pound Sterling, offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro, within the 13-weeks ended March 30, 2019.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.Other Information


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.
Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
Exhibit 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


