fls.txt
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.
Changes to trade regulations, including trade restrictions, sanctions, or tariffs, could significantly harm our results of operations.


item2.txt
Auto segment revenue decreased 16% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 13%, 14%, 28%, and 17%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables.
Cost of goods sold increased 5% in absolute dollars compared to the prior year quarter.
The outdoor segment decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to product mix.
The fitness segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by product mix.
The aviation segment decrease in cost of goods as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago quarter.
Gross profit dollars in the third quarter of 2018 increased 10% while gross margin increased 110 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
Advertising expense decreased 4% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The total absolute dollar decrease was driven primarily by decreased media advertising in the auto and fitness segments, partially offset by increased media advertising in the outdoor and marine segments.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 13% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions.
The decrease in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue in the auto segment was primarily attributable to a current quarter reduction in legal related costs compared to the year-ago quarter.
Research and development expense increased $9.3 million in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
Operating income increased 13% in absolute dollars and increased 110 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The growth in operating income in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth and increased gross margins, as discussed above.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar.
The $8.6 million currency gain recognized in the third quarter of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 13-weeks ended September 30, 2017.
The 1,200 basis points decrease to the third quarter of 2018 effective tax rate compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate and increased benefit from U.S. research and development tax credits.
Net sales increased 9% for the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018 when compared to the year-ago period.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.
The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant.
In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares.


