fls.txt
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
Net sales increased 15% for the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 24%, contributing 85% of total revenue.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 23%, 28%, 9%, and 28%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by adventure watches.
The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories.
Gross profit dollars in the third quarter of 2019 increased 18%, primarily due to growth in net sales along with a gross margin increase of 140 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment gross margin increase of 490 basis points was primarily attributable to lower license expense.
Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars.
The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments, partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and development expense as a percent of revenue decreased 130 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 7% in absolute dollars.
Operating income increased 33% in absolute dollars and 380 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.
The $16.3 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar, within the 13-weeks ended September 28, 2019.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar.
The 310 basis points increase to the third quarter of 2019 effective tax rate compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to a decrease in uncertain tax position reserves released due to expiring statutes of limitations in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Net sales increased 10% for the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago period.
The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 84% of total revenue.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 12%, 16%, 13%, and 22%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago period.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in adventure watches, golf and inReach product lines.


item3.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.


