fls.txt
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.
Changes to trade regulations, including trade restrictions, sanctions, or tariffs, could significantly harm our results of operations.


item2.txt
Net sales increased 8% for the 13-week period ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 17%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
Auto segment revenue decreased 19% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 4%, 24%, 24%, and 23%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The fitness segment revenues increase was primarily driven by strong sales in advanced wearables and cycling products.
Outdoor and aviation segment revenue increases were driven by increased sales across most product lines within each segment.
Cost of goods sold increased 7% in absolute dollars compared to the prior year quarter.
The outdoor segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from increased promotional activity during the second quarter of 2018.
Gross profit dollars in the second quarter of 2018 increased 8% while gross margin increased 30 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
Gross margin in the marine segment increased compared to the year-ago quarter, as discussed above.
Advertising expense increased 4% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
The total absolute dollar increase was driven primarily by increased cooperative advertising associated with higher sales.
Auto advertising expense, in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue, increased compared to the year-ago quarter primarily due to a refresh of point-of-sale displays.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment increase as a percent of revenues in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to accelerated amortization of an intangible asset related to a previous acquisition.
The increase in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenues in the marine segment was primarily attributable to expenses associated with recent acquisitions.
Research and development expense increased $14.5 million in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
Operating income increased 4% in absolute dollars and decreased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The growth in operating income in absolute dollars is primarily attributable to revenue growth while the slight decrease in operating income as a percent of revenues is primarily attributable to the increased operating expenses, as discussed above.
The $2.6 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended June 30, 2018.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 4.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $26.7 million, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 5.2% against the Euro and 5.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $14.0 million and $1.9 million, respectively.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018.
Item 1A.
The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant.


