item1.txt
Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Cypress" or the "Company") reports on a fiscal-year basis.
Additionally, the Company has elected the short-term lease exception for all classes of assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable.
When discount rates implicit in leases cannot be readily determined, the Company uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement to perform lease classification tests on lease components and to measure lease liabilities and ROU assets.
Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
The Company adopted ASC Topic 842, as of December 31, 2018 and applied the alternative modified retrospective transition method requiring application of the new guidance to all leases existing at, or entered into on or after, the date of adoption, i.e. December 31, 2018.
The Company paid $2.4 million in cash as its capital contribution in SkyHigh upon close of the transaction.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company allocated $65.7 million of goodwill previously recorded in the MPD segment to the NAND business being divested.
Based on an analysis carried out in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $76.6 million which related to the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to the NAND business and classified as held-for-sale.
During the first quarter of the fiscal 2019, the Company recognized an incremental loss of $3.5 million related to adjustments in the carrying value of certain assets and estimated costs of certain transition services.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018 inventories related to the NAND business in the amount of $10.8 million and $13.5 million, respectively, were classified as held-for-sale assets as SkyHigh has agreed to purchase such inventories.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company determined that its investment in Deca was other-than temporarily impaired and recognized a charge of $41.5 million in order to write down the carrying amount of the investment in Deca to the estimated fair value as of the end of fiscal 2018.
The Company’s carrying value in Deca was $61.6 million and $65.1 million as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company held 52.5% of Deca's outstanding voting shares as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018.
The Company did not have any material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018.
Certain of the Company’s assets, including intangible assets, goodwill and assets held for sale, are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis using Level 3 inputs if impairment is indicated.
As of March 31, 2019, the carrying value of the Company's senior secured credit facility was $442.5 million (See Note 10).
The carrying value of the Company's senior secured credit facility approximates its fair value since it bears an interest rate that is comparable to rates on similar credit facilities and is determined using Level 2 inputs.
The Company’s 4.5% 2022 Senior Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs.
The Company's 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs.
The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $0.1 million will be paid out in cash through the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Company paid $4.7 million during the fiscal 2018 and paid the remaining $14.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
On February 19, 2019, the Company's Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.11 per share payable to holders of record of its common stock at the close of the business day on March 28, 2019.
On March 18, 2019, the Company repaid $25.0 million of the outstanding Term Loan B principal in addition to the scheduled quarterly principal payment of $1.3 million.
On June 23, 2016, the Company issued, at face value, $287.5 million of Senior Exchangeable Notes due in 2022 (the "2022 Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
On November 6, 2017, the Company, issued at face value, $150.0 million of Senior Exchangeable Notes due in 2023 (the "2023 Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The Company has operating and finance leases for corporate offices, research and development facilities, and certain equipment.
The Company enters into multiple foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency risk resulting from fluctuations in Japanese yen (¥) and Euro (€) exchange rates.
In addition, the Company entered into fixed-for-interest rate forward swap agreements and has designated these swaps as hedging instruments.
The Company’s hedging policy is designed to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on its operating results.
Whether designated or undesignated as cash flow hedges or not, these forward contracts protect the Company against the variability of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from revenues, expenses and net asset or liability positions designated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
The Company enters into cash flow hedges to protect non-functional currency inventory purchases and certain other operational expenses, in addition to its ongoing program of cash flow hedges to protect its non-functional currency revenues against variability in cash flows due to foreign currency fluctuations.
The Company’s foreign currency forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges generally have maturities between three and thirteen months.
The Company recognizes derivative instruments from hedging activities as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measures them at fair value on a monthly basis.
The Company records changes in the intrinsic value of its cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, until the forecasted transaction occurs.
In the second quarter of 2018, the Company entered into cash flow hedges, in which interest charges or "forward points" on the forward contracts are included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness, and are recorded in the underlying hedged items in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
When the forecasted transaction occurs, the Company reclassifies the related gain or loss on the cash flow hedge to revenue or costs, depending on the risk hedged.
In the event the underlying forecasted transaction does not occur, or it becomes probable that it will not occur, the Company will reclassify the gain or loss on the related cash flow hedge from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income, net in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations at that time.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, the Company had a loss of $0.8 million and a gain of $0.9 million, which was related to cash flow hedges, recorded in other comprehensive income, respectively.
The Company evaluates hedge effectiveness at the inception of the hedge prospectively as well as retrospectively and records any ineffective portion of the hedge in other income, net in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
On January 3, 2018, the Company evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and designated these swaps as hedging instruments.
In October 2018, the Company entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements starting in July 2021 with two counterparties to swap future variable interest payments on existing debt for fixed interest payments; these agreements will expire in December 2024.
The Company has evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and has designated these swaps as cash flow hedges of the debt with future changes in fair value of these swaps to be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company has recognized a loss in other comprehensive income of $7.1 million for these interest rate swaps.
As of March 31, 2019, and December 30, 2018, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the Company's effective tax rate totaled $66.3 million and $65.8 million, respectively.
The Company's policy is to classify interest expense and penalties, if any, as components of the income tax provision in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Revenue from sales to two of the Company's distributors accounted for 16.9% and 15.4% of its consolidated revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
No other distributors or customers accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019.


item2.txt
Revenues recorded by MCD decreased by $26.3 million, or 7.8%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same prior year period.
Revenues recorded by MPD decreased by $16.9 million, or 6.9%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same prior year period.
The primary drivers of the improvement in gross margin were a shift in the product mix towards higher density memory products and a decrease in commoditized products, higher fab utilization, which increased from 74% in the three months ended April 1, 2018 to 83% in the three months ended March 31, 2019, and a reduction in the cost of certain products.
This improvement was partially offset by a decrease in the sale of inventory that was previously written off or written down for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the same prior year period.
Included in cost of revenues are amortization of intangible assets of $46.9 million and $48.1 million for the first quarters of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively.
•a decrease of $21.9 million in price adjustments and other revenue reserves for sales to distributors due to an increase in revenue during the first three months of 2019;
•a decrease in other current and long-term assets of $3.5 million for prepayments for licenses and other vendors; and
•a decrease in assets held for sale due to the changes in inventories of $2.7 million.


item3.txt
Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, term loans and exchangeable notes.
Interest on the exchangeable notes is fixed and interest on our term loans is at variable rates.
To provide an assessment of the foreign currency exchange risk associated with our foreign currency exposures within our operations, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact that an adverse change in exchange rates would have on our financial statements.
We expect our hedges of foreign currency exposures to be highly effective and offset a significant portion of the short-term impact of changes in exchange rates on the hedged portion of our exposures.


part2.txt
Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful.
We contributed our NAND flash memory business to the joint venture.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones.
("Deca"), was other-than temporarily impaired due to significant delays in Deca's commercialization and achievement of scalable production of certain key products, and consequently we recognized an impairment charge of $41.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to its estimated fair value as of the end of fiscal 2018.


