fls.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.


item1.txt
As permitted by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, these notes are condensed and do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
The Company identifies contracts with customers as agreements that create enforceable rights and obligations, which typically take the form of customer contracts or purchase orders.
The Company identifies performance obligations as promises in contracts to transfer distinct goods or services.
Application-specific customer solutions that are comprised of a combination of products and services are accounted for as one performance obligation to deliver a total solution to the customer.
These solutions are provided to customers in a variety of industries, including the consumer electronics, logistics, and automotive industries.
These activities are required to fulfill the Company’s promise to transfer the good and are expensed when revenue is recognized.
Amounts collected from customers for sales taxes are excluded from the transaction price.
If acceptance provisions are presumed to be substantive, then revenue is deferred until customer acceptance.
Credit assessments are performed to determine payment terms, which vary by region, industry, and customer.
Prepayment terms result in contract liabilities for customer deposits.
When credit is granted to customers, payment is typically due 30 to 90 days from billing.
Management exercises judgment when determining the amount of revenue to be recognized each period.
Topic 842 distinguishes between finance leases and operating leases, which are substantially similar to the classification criteria for distinguishing between capital leases and operating leases under current U.S. GAAP.
As of the date of this report, management has determined the scope of leases subject to the new accounting requirements and has selected a software package to assist with compliance.
Management is in the process of drafting the internal accounting lease policy and designing the related processes and internal controls.
ASU 2016-13 applies to all reporting entities holding financial assets that are not accounted for at fair value through net income (debt securities).
The amendments in this Update eliminate the probable initial recognition threshold to recognize a credit loss under current U.S. GAAP and, instead, reflect an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses.
Specifically, the amendments require the premium to be amortized to the earliest call date.
The amendments do not require an accounting change for securities held at a discount; the discount continues to be amortized to maturity.
Under current GAAP, premiums and discounts on callable debt securities generally are amortized to the maturity date.


item2.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
In addition to product revenue derived from the sale of machine vision products, the Company also generates revenue by providing maintenance and support, consulting, and training services to its customers; however, service revenue accounted for less than 10% of total revenue for all periods presented.
Factory automation customers purchase Cognex products and incorporate them into their manufacturing processes.
Most manufacturers can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, this market also includes a broad base of customers across a variety of other industries, including consumer products, food and beverage, medical devices, and pharmaceuticals.
A small percentage of the Company’s customers are in the semiconductor and electronics capital equipment market.
Accordingly, prior period revenue, cost of revenue, and gross profit have been restated to apply the provisions of this ASC.
Operating expenses increased by 37% over the prior year due principally to the impact of headcount additions to support the higher revenue level and future growth plans.


item4.txt
As required by Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has evaluated, with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in such rules) as of the end of the period covered by this report.


part2.txt
Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.


