fls.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.


item1.txt
As permitted by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, these notes are condensed and do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
In the opinion of the management of the Company, the accompanying consolidated unaudited financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal, recurring adjustments and financial statement reclassifications, necessary to present fairly the Company’s financial position as of July 1, 2018, and the results of its operations for the three-month and six-month periods ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017, and changes in shareholders’ equity, comprehensive income, and cash flows for the periods presented.
The Company identifies performance obligations as promises in contracts to transfer distinct goods or services.
On-site support services that are provided to the customer after the solution is deployed are accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
These solutions are provided to customers in a variety of industries, including the consumer electronics, logistics, and automotive industries.
These activities are required to fulfill the Company’s promise to transfer the goods and are expensed when revenue is recognized.
If revenue is recognized before immaterial promises have been completed, then the costs related to such immaterial promises are accrued at the time of sale.
Amounts collected from customers for sales taxes are excluded from the transaction price.
The Company includes estimated variable consideration in the transaction price only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved.
In certain instances, an arrangement may include customer-specified acceptance provisions or performance guarantees that allow the customer to accept or reject delivered products that do not meet the customer’s specifications.
If the Company can objectively determine that control of a good or service has been transferred to the customer in accordance with the agreed-upon specifications in the contract, then customer acceptance is a formality.
If acceptance provisions are presumed to be substantive, then revenue is deferred until customer acceptance.
Credit assessments are performed to determine payment terms, which vary by region, industry, and customer.
Prepayment terms result in contract liabilities for customer deposits.
When credit is granted to customers, payment is typically due 30 to 90 days from billing.
Management exercises judgment when determining the amount of revenue to be recognized each period.
Topic 842 distinguishes between finance leases and operating leases, which are substantially similar to the classification criteria for distinguishing between capital leases and operating leases under current GAAP.
Although this ASU is required to be applied using a modified retrospective approach, the Financial Accounting Standards Board is reportedly in the final stages of issuing an optional transition method allowing entities to apply the amendments of this Update as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings.
Management is in the process of reviewing all leases in scope, completing the implementation of the lease accounting software, and drafting the internal lease accounting policy and the related processes, internal controls, and disclosures.
The amendments in this Update eliminate the probable initial recognition threshold to recognize a credit loss under current GAAP and, instead, reflect an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses.


item2.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
Factory automation customers purchase Cognex products and incorporate them into their manufacturing processes.
Most manufacturers can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, this market also includes a broad base of customers across a variety of other industries, including consumer products, food and beverage, medical devices, and pharmaceuticals.
Operating income increased by 6% over the second quarter of 2017; however, a lower tax benefit related to stock option exercises than the prior year resulted in relatively flat net income.
Constant-currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period.
We generally refer to such amounts calculated on a constant-currency basis as excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes.
Results on a constant-currency basis are not in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.


item4.txt
As required by Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has evaluated, with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in such rules) as of the end of the period covered by this report.


part2.txt
Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.


