Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
We begin Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our businesses and significant trends.
This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results.
We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition.
Business Overview
Oracle provides products and services that address enterprise information technology (IT) environments.
Our products and services include applications and infrastructure offerings that are delivered worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models.
These models include on‑premise deployments, cloud‑based deployments, and hybrid deployments (an approach that combines both on-premise and cloud‑based deployment) such as our Oracle Cloud at Customer offering (an instance of Oracle Cloud in a customer’s own data center).
Accordingly, we offer choice and flexibility to our customers and facilitate the product, service and deployment combinations that best suit our customers’ needs.
Through our worldwide sales force and Oracle Partner Network, we sell to customers all over the world including businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers.
Cloud and License Business
Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 83% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.
•
•
cloud services revenues, which provide customers access to Oracle Cloud applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
The majority of our Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are generally billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed at the customer’s option; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed over time.
Table of Contents
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers deploy within cloud‑based, on‑premise and other IT environments.
Our cloud license and on‑premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized up front at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
Revenues from usage‑based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs.
The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues due to the point in time nature of revenue recognition for license transactions, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the contractual terms.
Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase and renew license support contracts, as described above.
Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy our applications and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy.
In recent periods, customer demand for our applications and infrastructure technologies delivered through our Oracle Cloud Services has increased.
To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications and infrastructure licenses and the related license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads.
We expect these trends to continue.
Our cloud and license business’ revenue growth is affected by many factors, including the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amounts and volumes of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
•
expected growth in our cloud services and license support offerings; and
•
continued demand for our cloud license and on-premise license offerings.
We believe these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and license products and services.
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.
The historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery; over those four quarterly periods.
Hardware Business
Our hardware business, which represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products, including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support.
Each hardware product and its related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.
The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product and its related software are delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer.
We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing
Table of Contents
hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services.
The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers.
Our hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products and associated software products such as Oracle Solaris.
Our hardware support offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.
Hardware support contracts are entered into and renewed at the option of the customer, are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual terms.
We generally expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our cloud and license business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs.
Our quarterly hardware revenues are difficult to predict.
Our hardware revenues, cost of hardware and hardware operating margins that we report are affected by many factors, including our ability to timely manufacture or deliver a few large hardware transactions; our strategy for and the position of our hardware products relative to competitor offerings; customer demand for competing offerings, including cloud infrastructure offerings; the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; whether customers decide to purchase hardware support contracts at or in close proximity to the time of hardware product sale; the percentage of our hardware support contract customer base that renews its support contracts and the close association between hardware products, which have a finite life, and customer demand for related hardware support as hardware products age; customer decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
Services Business
Our services business, which represented 8% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies.
We believe that our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience, broad sets of intellectual property and best practices.
Our services offerings include consulting services, advanced customer support services and education services.
Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and license and hardware businesses.
Our services revenues are affected by many factors including, our strategy for, and the competitive position of, our services; customer demand for our cloud and license and hardware offerings and the associated services for these offerings; general economic conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; personnel reductions in our customers’ IT departments; and tighter controls over customer discretionary spending.
Acquisitions
Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy.
Historically, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies.
As compelling opportunities become available, we may acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy.
Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our recent acquisitions.
We believe that we can fund our future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.
We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition.
Table of Contents
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
•
Revenue Recognition;
•
Business Combinations;
•
Goodwill and Intangible Assets—Impairment Assessments;
•
Accounting for Income Taxes; and
•
Legal and Other Contingencies.
During the first half of fiscal 2020, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2019 provides a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates.
Results of Operations
Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information
In our results of operations discussion below, we provide an overview of our total consolidated revenues, total consolidated expenses and total consolidated operating margin, all of which are presented on a GAAP basis.
We also present a GAAP-based discussion below for substantially all of the other expense items as presented in our condensed consolidated statements of operations that are not directly attributable to our three businesses.
In addition, we discuss below the results of each our three businesses—cloud and license, hardware and services—which are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting.
The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs.
Our operating segment presentation below reflects revenues, direct costs and sales and marketing expenses that correspond to and are directly attributable to each of our three businesses.
We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each business in the discussion below.
Consistent with our internal management reporting processes, the below operating segment presentation is noted to include any revenues adjustments related to cloud services and license support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements.
Refer to “Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges” below for additional discussion of these items and Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of our total operating segment revenues as presented in the discussion below to total revenues as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.
In addition, research and development expenses, general and administrative expenses, stock-based compensation expenses, amortization of intangible assets, certain other expense allocations, acquisition related and other expenses, restructuring expenses, interest expense, non-operating income, net and provision for income taxes are not attributed to our three operating segments because our management does not view the performance of our
Table of Contents
Constant Currency Presentation
Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of each of our businesses’ revenues and expenses.
As a result, each businesses’ revenues and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies.
In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure.
To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S.
Dollars are converted into U.S.
Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2019, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods.
For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on November 30, 2019 and 2018, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.10 million in the first half of fiscal 2020 (using 1.10 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.13 million in the first half of fiscal 2019 (using 1.13 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period).
The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the first half of fiscal 2020 and 2019 using the May 31, 2019 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period.
In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency.
Total Revenues and Operating Expenses
Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa
Table of Contents
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the fiscal 2020 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues, which were partially offset by decreases in our hardware revenues and services revenues.
The constant currency increases in our cloud and license revenues during the fiscal 2020 periods presented were attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud deployment models and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud and license support contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services.
The constant currency decreases in our hardware revenues during the fiscal 2020 periods presented were due to reductions in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of customers that purchased hardware support contracts.
The constant currency decreases in our services revenues during the fiscal 2020 periods were primarily attributable to decreases in our education services revenues, partially offset by increases in our consulting revenues and advanced customer services revenues.
In constant currency, total revenue growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions was partially offset by a decline in revenues in the EMEA region during the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 28%, 15% and 57%, respectively, to the growth in our total revenues during the first half of fiscal 2020.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total operating expenses were flat in the fiscal 2020 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods.
We incurred higher constant currency cloud services and license support expenses and higher constant currency cloud and license related sales and marketing expenses, both of which resulted primarily from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses to support the increases in our cloud and license business’ revenues; higher constant currency services expenses; and higher constant currency research and development expenses; in each case during the fiscal 2020 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods.
These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by certain expense decreases during the fiscal 2020 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily lower hardware products costs and a related decrease in hardware sales and marketing costs, both of which aligned to lower hardware revenues; lower restructuring expenses; and lower amortization of intangible assets.
In constant currency, our total operating margin and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased slightly during the fiscal 2020 periods presented due to the constant currency increases in our total revenues.
Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial information, we believe that the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future.
Table of Contents
In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud services and license support contracts assumed.
Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize the cloud services and license support revenue amounts as presented in the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations.
To the extent customers for which these contractual obligations pertain renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts’ values over the respective contracts’ renewal periods.
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
Restructuring expenses during the first half of fiscal 2020 and 2019 both primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2019 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2019 Restructuring Plan).
Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in management’s discussion below under “Restructuring Expenses”, in Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019.
For the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2020, the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to our income before provision for income taxes after adjusting for the effects of items within the table above, such as for stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, and certain other acquisition related items, resulted in an effective tax rate of 18.8% and 19.3%, respectively, instead of 17.7% and 16.0%, respectively, as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
For the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019, the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to our income before provision for income taxes after adjusting for the effects of items within the table above, such as for stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, and certain other acquisition related items, and after excluding the effects of income tax reform (see footnote (7) below), resulted in an effective tax rate of 18.6% and 18.8%, respectively, instead of 15.9% and 13.5%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
The income tax reform adjustment presented in the table above was due to an income tax expense adjustment made pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (SAB 118) during the first half of fiscal 2019 related to the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act).
The more significant provisions of the Tax Act as applicable to us are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019.
Cloud and License Business
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications and infrastructure technologies through various deployment models, including license support offerings; Oracle Cloud Services offerings; and cloud license and on-premise license offerings.
License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses, are purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year.
Our cloud services deliver applications and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis
Table of Contents
via cloud-based deployment models that we develop, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support, and revenues are generally recognized over the contractual term, which is generally one to three years, or in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments and are generally recognized up front at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force.
We also continue to market certain of our offerings through indirect channels.
Costs associated with our cloud and license business are included in cloud services and license support expenses, and sales and marketing expenses.
These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs.
Includes cloud services and license support revenue adjustments related to certain cloud services and license support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded as revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our GAAP-based condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements.
Such revenue adjustments were included in our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs.
See “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above for additional information.
Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations.
Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above.
Table of Contents
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total revenues from our cloud and license business increased in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues, which was primarily due to increased customer purchases of and renewals of cloud-based services and license support contracts in recent periods for which we delivered such services during the fiscal 2020 periods presented.
In constant currency, our total applications revenues and our total infrastructure revenues each grew during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, each relative to the corresponding prior year periods, as customers continued to deploy our applications technologies and infrastructure technologies through a wide array of different deployment models that we offer to enable customer choice.
In constant currency, the Americas and Asia Pacific regions contributed to our cloud and license business’ revenue growth, while the EMEA region was flat, during the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 44%, 17% and 39%, respectively, of the constant currency revenue growth for this business during the first half of fiscal 2020.
In constant currency, total cloud and license expenses increased in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to higher cloud services and license support expenses and higher sales and marketing expenses, each of which increased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented primarily due to higher employee related expenses from higher headcount, and also due to higher technology infrastructure expenses.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license business’ total margins increased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to the fiscal 2020 increases in revenues for this business, while total fiscal 2020 margins as a percentage of revenues remained flat in constant currency.
Hardware Business
Our hardware business’ revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, server, storage, and industry-specific hardware.
The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.
The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer.
Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term, which is generally one year.
The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels such as independent distributors and value-added resellers and we also market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force.
Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings.
Table of Contents
Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations.
Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP‑based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information” above.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware revenues decreased in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to lower hardware products revenues and lower hardware support revenues.
The decreases in hardware products and hardware support revenues in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding fiscal 2019 periods presented, were primarily attributable to our continued emphasis on the marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of hardware support contracts sold in recent periods.
Constant currency decreases in revenue growth in the Americas and EMEA regions were partially offset by constant currency increases in revenue growth in the Asia Pacific region during the fiscal 2020 periods presented.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware expenses decreased in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to lower hardware products expenses, lower hardware support costs, and lower sales and marketing expenses, all of which aligned to lower hardware revenues.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues for our hardware business increased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to lower expenses.
Services Business
We offer services to customers and partners to help to maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies.
Services revenues are generally recognized over time as the services are performed.
The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses.
Table of Contents
Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations.
Also excludes certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information” above.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues decreased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to decreases in our education services revenues, partially offset by increases in consulting revenues and advanced customer services revenues.
Constant currency decreases in revenue growth in the Americas and EMEA regions were partially offset by constant currency increases in revenue growth in the Asia Pacific region during the fiscal 2020 periods presented.
In constant currency, total services expenses increased in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to an increase in headcount and related expenses associated with our consulting offerings during the fiscal 2020 periods presented.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to the revenue declines and expense increases for this business in the fiscal 2020 periods presented.
Excluding stock-based compensation
On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to higher fiscal 2020 stock-based compensation expenses.
Table of Contents
Excluding stock-based compensation
Amortization of intangible assets decreased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized, partially offset by additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions.
Table of Contents
Restructuring expenses in the fiscal 2020 and 2019 periods presented primarily related to our 2019 Restructuring Plan.
Our management approved, committed to and initiated the 2019 Restructuring Plan in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations.
The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2019 Restructuring Plan are up to $626 million, of which approximately $25 million were remaining as of November 30, 2019, and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred through an expected end date of fiscal 2020.
Our estimated costs are subject to change in future periods.
The majority of the initiatives undertaken by our 2019 Restructuring Plan were effected to implement our continued emphasis in developing, marketing and selling our cloud-based offerings.
These initiatives impacted certain of our sales and marketing and research and development operations.
Cost savings that are expected to be realized pursuant to our 2019 Restructuring Plan initiatives are primarily expected to be offset by investments in resources and geographies that best address the development, marketing and sale of our cloud‑based offerings including investments in our second‑generation cloud infrastructure.
Interest expense decreased due to lower average borrowings during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to the maturities and repayments of $4.5 billion of senior notes during the fiscal 2020 periods presented and $2.0 billion of senior notes during fiscal 2019.
Table of Contents
On a constant currency basis, our non-operating income, net decreased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to lower interest income in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, which was primarily attributable to lower average cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances during the fiscal 2020 periods presented.
These decreases during the fiscal 2020 periods presented were partially offset by higher other income, net, during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, which was primarily attributable to changes in market values associated with certain marketable equity securities that we held for certain employee benefit plans and classified as trading, and for which an equal and offsetting amount was recorded to our operating expenses in the same periods.
Table of Contents
Liquidity and Capital Resources
The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S.
Dollars for a significant portion of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances held by our foreign subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss in our condensed consolidated balance sheets and is also presented as a line item in our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report).
As the U.S. Dollar generally strengthened against certain major international currencies on a net basis during the first half of fiscal 2020, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S.
Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased on a net basis as of November 30, 2019 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from the May 31, 2019 balance sheet date.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased in the first half of fiscal 2020, relative to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to lower net income and certain cash unfavorable changes in working capital balances during the first half of fiscal 2020, in each case relative to the corresponding prior year period.
Table of Contents
Net cash provided by investing activities increased during the first half of fiscal 2020, primarily due to an increase in the sales and maturities of, and a decrease in the purchases of, marketable securities and other investments during the first half of fiscal 2020 relative to the corresponding prior year period.
Net cash used for financing activities in the first half of fiscal 2020 decreased compared to the first half of fiscal 2019 primarily due to decreased stock repurchases as we repurchased $10.0 billion of common stock in the first half of fiscal 2020 compared to $20.0 billion in the first half of fiscal 2019.
This cash favorable variance to our financing activities during the first half of fiscal 2020 was partially offset by increased debt repayments made during the first half of fiscal 2020 relative to the corresponding prior year period.
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements.
In addition, we believe that we could fund our future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.
Table of Contents
Restricted Stock-Based Awards and Stock Options
Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders.
We recognize that restricted stock-based awards and stock options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages.
Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2016 has been a weighted-average annualized rate of 1.5% per year.
The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new restricted stock-based awards and stock options granted and assumed, net of restricted stock-based awards and stock options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted-average outstanding shares during the calculation period.
This maximum potential dilution will only result if all restricted stock-based awards vest and all stock options are exercised.
Of the outstanding stock options at November 30, 2019, which generally have a ten-year exercise period, substantially all have exercise prices lower than the market price of our common stock on such date.
In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program.
However, we may modify the levels of our stock repurchases in the future depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash we have available for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes.
At November 30, 2019, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding restricted stock-based awards and unexercised stock options, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested, was 9.5%.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.
Item 2.
 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock.
On September 11, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $15.0 billion.
As of November 30, 2019, approximately $10.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.
Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions.
Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.
Table of Contents
Item 6.
Exhibits
Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
‡
Filed herewith.
†
Furnished herewith.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Oracle Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
