Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
We begin Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our businesses and significant trends.
This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results.
We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition.
Business Overview
Oracle Corporation provides products and services that address all aspects of information technology (IT) environments—applications, platform and infrastructure.
Our applications, platform and infrastructure offerings are delivered to customers worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models, including cloud-based, on-premise, or hybrid IT models, which enable customer choice and flexibility.
We market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs.
Cloud and License Business
Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 82% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.
•
•
cloud services revenues, which includes revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which provide customers access to applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
The majority of our Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed.
Table of Contents
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
Our cloud license and on-premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs.
The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over their contractual terms.
Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase license support contracts, as described above.
Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy.
In recent periods, customer demand has increased for our Oracle Cloud Services.
To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications, platform and infrastructure licenses and license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads.
We expect these trends to continue.
Our cloud and license business’ revenues growth is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; our acquisitions; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amount and volume of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
•
expected growth in our cloud services and license support offerings;
•
continued demand for our cloud license and on-premise license offerings; and
•
contributions from our acquisitions.
We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and license products and services.
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.
The historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery, over those four quarterly periods.
Hardware Business
Our hardware business, which represented 10% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support.
The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.
The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer.
We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products
Table of Contents
and services and to develop new hardware products and services.
The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers.
Our hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products and associated software products such as Oracle Solaris.
Our hardware support offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.
Hardware support contracts are entered into at the option of the customer, are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual terms.
We generally expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our cloud and license business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs.
Services Business
Acquisitions
Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy.
In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies.
We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy.
Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our recent acquisitions.
We believe that we can fund our future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.
We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition.
Table of Contents
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
•
Revenue Recognition;
•
Business Combinations;
•
Goodwill and Intangible Assets—Impairment Assessments;
•
Accounting for Income Taxes; and
•
Legal and Other Contingencies.
In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require management’s judgment in its application.
There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result.
Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Results of Operations
Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017
The comparability of our operating results in the first half of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year was impacted by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act), which was effective for us starting in our third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Information regarding our adoption and the prospective impacts of the Tax Act on our tax and liquidity profile is included in Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and also in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018.
Impacts of Acquisitions
The comparability of our operating results in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018 was impacted by our recent acquisitions.
In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018, we may qualitatively disclose the impact of our acquired products and services (for the one-year period subsequent to
Table of Contents
•
any qualitative and quantitative disclosures cannot specifically address or quantify the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration efforts.
We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products and services sold would have been different; and
•
the amounts shown as cloud services and license support deferred revenues in our “Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges” (presented below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewals to the extent customers do not renew.
Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information
In our results of operations discussion below, we provide an overview of our total consolidated revenues, total consolidated expenses and total consolidated operating margin, all of which are presented on a GAAP basis.
We also present a GAAP-based discussion below for substantially all of the other expense items as presented in our condensed consolidated statement of operations that are not directly attributable to our three businesses.
In addition, we discuss below the results of each our three businesses—cloud and license, hardware and services—which are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting.
The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs.
Our operating segment presentation below reflects revenues, direct costs and sales and marketing expenses that correspond to and are directly attributable to each of our three businesses.
We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each business in the discussion below.
Consistent with our internal management reporting processes, the below operating segment presentation includes revenues adjustments related to cloud services and license support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements.
Refer to “Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges” below for additional discussion of these items and Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of our total operating segment revenues as presented in the discussion below to total revenues as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.
Table of Contents
Constant Currency Presentation
Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of each of our businesses’ revenues and expenses.
As a result, each businesses’ revenues and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies.
In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure.
To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S.
Dollars are converted into U.S.
Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2018, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods.
For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on November 30, 2018 and 2017, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.13 million in the first half of fiscal 2019 (using 1.13 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.19 million in the first half of fiscal 2018 (using 1.19 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period).
The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the first half of fiscal 2019 and first half of fiscal 2018 using the May 31, 2018 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period.
In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency.
Total Revenues and Operating Expenses
Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa
The Asia Pacific region includes Japan
Table of Contents
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues, which were partially offset by decreases in our hardware revenues and services revenues.
The constant currency increases in our cloud and license revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud deployment models and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud and license support contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services.
The constant currency decreases in our hardware revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were due to a reduction in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud and license technologies.
The constant currency decreases in our services revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were attributable to declines in our consulting services and education services revenues.
In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 11% and 35%, respectively, 44% and 40%, respectively, and 45% and 25%, respectively, to the growth in our second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 total revenues, respectively.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total operating expenses increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to higher cloud services and license support expenses and higher cloud and license related sales and marketing expenses, both of which resulted primarily from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses to support the increases in our cloud and license business’ revenues; increased research and development expenses; and higher amortization of intangible assets.
These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by certain expense decreases during the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods, which primarily consisted of lower restructuring expenses; lower hardware products costs and a related decrease in hardware sales and marketing costs, both of which aligned to lower hardware revenues; and lower general and administrative expenses due primarily to lower professional fees incurred.
In constant currency, our total operating margin and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented primarily due to the increases in total revenues.
Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial information, we believe that the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future.
You should review the introduction under “Impacts of Acquisitions” (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information.
In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud services and license support contracts assumed.
Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize the cloud services and license support revenue amounts as presented in
Table of Contents
the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations.
To the extent customers for which these contractual obligations pertain renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts’ values over the respective contracts’ renewal periods.
Certain acquired companies capitalized sales commissions associated with subscription agreements and amortized these amounts over the related contractual terms.
Business combination accounting rules generally require us to eliminate these acquired capitalized sales commissions balances as of the acquisition date and our post-combination GAAP sales and marketing expenses generally do not reflect the amortization of these acquired deferred sales commissions balances.
This adjustment is intended to include, and thus reflect, the full amount of amortization related to such balances as though the acquired companies operated independently in the periods presented.
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation expenses for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
Restructuring expenses during the first half of fiscal 2019 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2019 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2019 Restructuring Plan).
Restructuring expenses during the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2017 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2017 Restructuring Plan).
Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in management’s discussion below under “Restructuring Expenses”, Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018.
Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated generally upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards.
For the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019, the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to our income before provision for income taxes after adjusting for the effects of items within the table above, excluding income tax reform (see footnote (8) below), resulted in an effective tax rate of 18.6% and 18.8%, respectively, instead of 15.9% and 13.5%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense and acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets.
Income tax effects for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 were calculated based on the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to the items within the table above and resulted in an effective tax rate of 25.2% and 25.1%, respectively, instead of 21.7% and 18.2%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects for stock-based compensation expense and acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets.
The income tax reform adjustment for the first half of fiscal 2019 presented in the table above was due to the enactment of the Tax Act (refer to “Provision for Income Taxes” below for additional discussion), which was effective for us in our third quarter of fiscal 2018 and for which we continue to refine our estimates related to our adoption of the Tax Act pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (SAB 118).
Cloud and License Business
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through various deployment models including license support offerings; Oracle Cloud Services offerings; and cloud license and on-premise license offerings.
License support revenues are typically
Table of Contents
generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year.
Our cloud services deliver certain of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis via cloud-based deployment models that we develop, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support, and revenues are generally recognized over the contractual term, which is generally one to three years, or in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force.
We also continue to market certain of our offerings through indirect channels.
Costs associated with our cloud and license business are included in cloud services and license support expenses, and sales and marketing expenses.
These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs.
Includes cloud services and license support revenue adjustments related to certain cloud services and license support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded as revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our GAAP-based condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements.
Such revenue adjustments were included in our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs.
See “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above for additional information.
Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations.
Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above.
Table of Contents
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total revenues from our cloud and license business increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues, which was primarily due to increased customer purchases and renewals of cloud-based services and license support services in recent periods for which we delivered such services during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, and due to contributions from our recent acquisitions.
In constant currency, our total applications revenues and our total platform and infrastructure revenues each grew during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, each relative to the corresponding prior year periods, as customers continued to deploy our applications technologies and platform and infrastructure technologies through a wide array of different deployment models that we offer to enable customer choice.
The Americas region contributed 21% and 38%, respectively, the EMEA region contributed 37% and 34%, respectively, and the Asia Pacific region contributed 42% and 28%, respectively, of the constant currency revenues growth for this business during the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019, respectively.
In constant currency, total cloud and license expenses increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to higher sales and marketing expenses and higher cloud services and license support expenses, both of which increased primarily due to higher employee related expenses from higher headcount.
In addition, our constant currency cloud services and license support expenses increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to higher technology infrastructure expenses that supported the growth in our revenues.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license segment’s total margin increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to the fiscal 2019 increases in revenues for this segment, while total fiscal 2019 margins as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly due to expenses growth for this segment.
Hardware Business
Our hardware business’ revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, server, storage, and industry-specific hardware.
The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.
The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer.
Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term, which is generally one year.
The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels such as independent distributors and value-added resellers and we also market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force.
Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings.
Table of Contents
Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations.
Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information” above.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware revenues decreased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to lower hardware products revenues and, to a lesser extent, lower hardware support revenues.
The decreases in hardware products revenues in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the fiscal 2018 periods presented, were primarily attributable to our continued emphasis on the marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of hardware support contracts sold in recent periods.
These constant currency fiscal 2019 hardware revenues decreases were partially offset by certain fiscal 2019 hardware revenues increases related to our Oracle Engineered Systems offerings, primarily Oracle Exadata.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware expenses decreased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to lower hardware products costs and lower sales and marketing employee related expenses, which aligned to lower hardware revenues.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as percentage of revenues for our hardware segment increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to lower expenses.
Services Business
We offer services to customers and partners to help to maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies.
Services revenues are generally recognized over time as the services are performed.
The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses.
Table of Contents
Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations.
Also excludes certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information” above.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues decreased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to revenue declines in our consulting services and education services.
Constant currency decreases in our services revenues in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions were partially offset by a constant currency services revenues increase in the EMEA region during the fiscal 2019 periods presented.
In constant currency, total services expenses increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to an increase in headcount related expenses associated with our consulting offerings.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to the decreases in revenues and increased expenses for this business.
Excluding stock-based compensation
On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, primarily due to increased employee related expenses resulting from increased headcount.
Table of Contents
Excluding stock-based compensation
On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses decreased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented primarily due to reductions in professional fees, partially offset by modestly higher employee related expenses.
Amortization of intangible assets increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions, partially offset by a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized.
Not meaningful
Table of Contents
On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses increased slightly in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to an increase in net expenses associated with business combination adjustments.
Restructuring expenses in the fiscal 2019 periods presented primarily related to our 2019 Restructuring Plan.
Restructuring expenses in fiscal 2018 periods presented primarily related to our 2017 Restructuring Plan, which is substantially complete.
Our management approved, committed to and initiated these plans in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations.
The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2019 Restructuring Plan are up to $432 million, of which approximately $195 million were remaining as of November 30, 2018, and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred through an expected end date of fiscal 2020.
Our estimated costs are subject to change in future periods.
Interest expense increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $10.0 billion of senior notes in November 2017 which was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense resulting from the maturity and repayment of $6.0 billion of senior notes during fiscal 2018.
Table of Contents
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Table of Contents
The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S.
Dollars for a significant portion of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances held by our foreign subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss in our condensed consolidated balance sheets and is also presented as a line item in our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report).
As the U.S. Dollar generally strengthened against certain major international currencies during the first half of fiscal 2019, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S.
Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased on a net basis as of November 30, 2018 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from the May 31, 2018 balance sheet date.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased modestly in the first half of fiscal 2019, relative to the corresponding prior year period, primarily due to certain cash unfavorable changes in working capital balances, primarily cash unfavorable changes associated with income taxes, which was largely attributable to an installment payment made pursuant to the transition tax provisions of the Tax Act.
These unfavorable cash changes during the first half of fiscal 2019 were partially offset by higher net income during the first half of fiscal 2019.
Net cash provided by investing activities was $5.5 billion in the first half of fiscal 2019 compared to $7.5 billion of net cash used for investing activities in the first half of fiscal 2018.
The increase in net cash provided by investing activities during the first half of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in purchases of marketable securities and other investments.
Table of Contents
Net cash used for financing activities in the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared to the first half of fiscal 2018 due primarily to increased stock repurchases as we repurchased $20.0 billion of common stock in the first half of fiscal 2019 compared to $2.5 billion in the first half of fiscal 2018.
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements.
In addition, we believe that we could fund our future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.
Restricted Stock-Based Awards and Stock Options
Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders.
We recognize that restricted stock-based awards and stock options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages.
Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2015 has been a weighted-average annualized rate of 1.5% per year.
The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new
Table of Contents
restricted stock-based awards or stock options granted and assumed, net of restricted stock-based awards and stock options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted-average outstanding shares during the calculation period.
This maximum potential dilution will only result if all restricted stock-based awards vest and all stock options are exercised.
Of the outstanding stock options at November 30, 2018, which generally have a ten-year exercise period, approximately 23.2% have exercise prices higher than the market price of our common stock on such date.
In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program.
However, we may modify the levels of our stock repurchases in the future depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash we have available for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes.
At November 30, 2018, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding restricted stock-based awards and unexercised stock options, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including stock options where the strike price is higher than the market price as of such date, was 10.0%.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.
Item 2.
 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock.
On September 17, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $12.0 billion.
As of November 30, 2018, approximately $9.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.
Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions.
Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.
Item 5.
 Other Information
On December 17, 2018, we issued a press release announcing our financial results for our fiscal second quarter ended November 30, 2018 furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to a Form 8-K.
The press release stated that our two cloud ERP businesses, Fusion ERP and NetSuite ERP, delivered a revenue growth rate of 32% in the quarter, which was the non-GAAP growth rate.
The correct GAAP percentage growth rate is 34%.
Table of Contents
Item 6.
Exhibits
‡
Filed herewith.
†
Furnished herewith.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Oracle Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
