Item 4.
Controls and Procedures 





Table of Contents 

more people or by management override of the controls.
The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Table of Contents 

PART II.
Legal Proceedings 

The material set forth in Note 9 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 12 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors 

In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018.
The risks discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing us.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be insignificant also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock.
On September 17, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $12.0 billion.
As of November 30, 2018, approximately $9.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.
Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions.
Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.
Item 5.
Other Information 

On December 17, 2018, we issued a press release announcing our financial results for our fiscal second quarter ended November 30, 2018 furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to a Form 8-K.
The press release stated that our two cloud ERP businesses, Fusion ERP and NetSuite ERP, delivered a revenue growth rate of 32% in the quarter, which was the non-GAAP growth rate.
The correct GAAP percentage growth rate is 34%.
Table of Contents 

Item 6.
Exhibits 


‡  

Filed herewith.
†  

Furnished herewith.
Table of Contents 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Oracle Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
