Item 4.
Controls and Procedures  



Table of Contents 

 of the period covered by this Quarterly Report, our Principal Executive Officers have concluded that our “disclosure controls and procedures” (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)) were effective to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by us in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to our management (including our Principal Executive Officers) as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Table of Contents 

PART II.
Legal Proceedings  

The material set forth in Note 11 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 14 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors  

In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2017.
The risks discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing us.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be insignificant also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock.
On December 14, 2017 and February 2, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program totaling $24.0 billion.
As of February 28, 2018, approximately $22.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.
Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions.
Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.
Table of Contents 

Item 6.
Exhibits  


 ‡  Filed herewith.
†  Furnished herewith.
Table of Contents 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Oracle Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
