Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

There were no significant changes to our quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Please refer to Part II, Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018 for a more complete discussion of the market risks we encounter.
Table of Contents 

Item 4.
Controls and Procedures 





Table of Contents 

PART II.
Legal Proceedings 

The material set forth in Note 9 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 12 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors 

In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018.
The risks discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing us.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be insignificant also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock.
On September 17, 2018 and February 15, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program collectively totaling $24.0 billion.
As of February 28, 2019, approximately $11.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.
Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions.
Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.
Table of Contents 

Item 6.
Exhibits 



Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
‡  

Filed herewith.
†  

Furnished herewith.
Table of Contents 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Oracle Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
