The new model uses a forward-looking expected loss method, which will generally result in earlier recognition of allowances for losses.
Readers are cautioned to review the risks, uncertainties, and assumptions set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the section entitled "Certain Forward-Looking Information" and the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2017, and other periodic filings with the SEC, any of which could affect our estimates for future financial needs and sources of working capital.
Readers are cautioned to review the risks, uncertainties, and assumptions set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the section entitled "Certain Forward-Looking Information" and the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2017, and other periodic filings with the SEC, any of which could affect our estimates for future financial needs and sources of working capital.
We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash provided by operations, and the availability of additional funds under the Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund operations for at least the next 12 months; however, any projections of future financial needs and sources of working capital are subject to uncertainty.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance regarding the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments, which changes the impairment model for most financial assets.You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A.
As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”).
Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2017 (the "Form 10-K"), each of which could materially affect our business, financial position, or future results of operations.
In addition, it is uncertain how each country where we do business may react to the Tax Act.
The risks described here and on the Form 10-K are not the only risks we face.
The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex.