fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.


item1.txt
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell" or the "Company"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States ("U.S.") generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), under the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
In July 2015, the FASB issued a new ASU which aligns the measurement of inventory under GAAP more closely with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The standard requires cash flows from excess tax benefits and deficiencies, previously classified as a financing activity, to be classified as an operating activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The tax deficiencies were recorded as an operating activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Also, as part of the adoption, a $9.7 adjustment was recorded to increase retained earnings and deferred tax assets to recognize the cumulative amount of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits as of October 1, 2017.
As such, $15.6 of cash outflows for tax withholding payments were reclassified from an operating activity to a financing activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
Under existing guidance, an entity performs procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing date of its assets and liabilities following the same procedures required when determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination.
The amended guidance requires an entity to perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, and recognize an impairment charge to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the fair value and does not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.


item2.txt
While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as "adjusted" or "organic" and exclude items such as impairment charges, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Jack Black, L.L.C.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the impact of acquisitions includes net sales and segment profit activity for Jack Black, which was acquired in March 2018.
For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the impact of acquisitions also includes October 2017 net sales and segment profit for Bulldog Skincare Holdings Limited (“Bulldog”), which was acquired in October 2016.
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as impairment charges, Jack Black integration costs, restructuring charges, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act.
•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as impairment charges, Jack Black integration costs, restructuring charges, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
Refer to Note 2 of our Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding the acquisition of Jack Black and Note 3 of our Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the sale of the Playtex household gloves business.
The personal care product categories are highly competitive, both in the U.S. and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space.
Our priority is to deliver our strategic objectives, focusing on maximizing sales and profit growth through innovation, product line extensions and share gains, and we continue to target improved working capital management as a key business objective.
We performed an interim impairment analysis using financial information through June 30, 2018 and forecasts for cash flows developed using our three year strategic plan.
The interim impairment review was performed across all reporting units and indefinite lived intangible assets and we found the carrying value of the goodwill of our Infant Care reporting unit to be above its fair value, resulting in a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $24.4.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
There have been no material changes to the disclosure regarding the legal proceedings set forth in Part I, Item 3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
Risk Factors.


