ITEM 3 - QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK



Investment Portfolio and Interest Rate Risk



We actively monitor market conditions and developments specific to the securities in which we invest. We believe that we take a conservative approach to investing our funds in that we invest only in highly-rated securities and diversify our portfolio of investments. While we believe we take prudent measures to mitigate investment-related risks, such risks cannot be fully eliminated because of market circumstances that are outside our control.



Our investments consist of instruments that meet quality standards that are consistent with our investment policy. This policy specifies that, except for direct obligations of the United States government, securities issued by agencies of the United States government, and money market funds, we diversify our investments by limiting our holdings with any individual issuer. We do not hold derivative financial instruments or European sovereign debt in our portfolio of investments. See Note 2 and Note 3 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for a summary of the amortized cost and fair value of our investments by type of issue.



Our cash equivalents and investments are subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates. Interest rate movements affect the interest income we earn on cash equivalents and investments and the fair value of those investments. If the Federal Reserve Target Rate had increased by 25 basis points from the level of October 31, 2018, the value of our investments at that date would have decreased by approximately $1 million. If the Federal Reserve Target Rate had increased by 100 basis points from the level of October 31, 2018, the value of our investments at that date would have decreased by approximately $4.0 million.



We are also exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates as they affect our $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility and $500 million unsecured term loan. Advances under the revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.5% or the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.9% to 1.5%. The term loan accrues interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.125% to 0.875% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 1.125% to 1.875%. Actual margins under all of these elections are based on our senior debt credit ratings. Consequently, our interest expense fluctuates with changes in the general level of these interest rates. At October 31, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility and $425 million was outstanding under the term loan. See Note 4 and Note 5 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.



Impact of Foreign Currency Rate Changes



The functional currencies of our international operating subsidiaries are generally the local currencies. We translate the assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries at the exchange rates in effect on the balance sheet date. We translate their revenue, costs and expenses at the average rates of exchange in effect during the period. We include translation gains and losses in the stockholders’ equity section of our consolidated balance sheets. We include net gains and losses resulting from foreign exchange transactions in interest and other income in our consolidated statements of operations.



Since we translate foreign currencies (primarily Canadian dollars, Indian rupees, and British pounds) into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, currency fluctuations can have an impact on our financial results. The historical impact of currency fluctuations on our financial results has generally been immaterial. We believe that our exposure to currency exchange fluctuation risk is not significant because our global subsidiaries invoice customers and satisfy their financial obligations almost exclusively in their local currencies. We believe the impact of currency fluctuations will continue to not be significant in the future due to the reasons cited above. However, the impact of currency fluctuations could be material in the future. As of October 31, 2018, we did not engage in foreign currency hedging activities.



  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 38  

