fls.txt
The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future.


item1.txt
Daktronics, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) is the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts therein.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- to 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period.
The aggregate amount of investments accounted for under the equity method was $3,303 and $2,678 at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
Cash paid for investments in affiliates is included in the Purchases of equity investment line item in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
For the nine months ended January 27, 2018, our share of the losses of our affiliates was $401.
The aggregate amount of investments accounted for under the cost method was $42 at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which reduces the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Restricted Cash, which requires that the statements of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash.
Accordingly, restricted cash will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts presented on the statements of cash flows.


item2.txt
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.
Segment Disclosure" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of large project orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the effects of those pronouncements on our financial results, refer to "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation and Summary of Critical Accounting Policies" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.
Increases in user adoption, the acceptance of a variety of digital solutions, and the decline of digital solution pricing over the years has increased the size of the global market.
Segment Disclosure" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
•The use of architectural lighting products for commercial buildings, which real estate owners use to add accents or effects to an entire side or circumference of a building to communicate messages or to decorate the building.
This is dependent on there being no adverse changes in the digital billboard regulatory environment restricting future deployments of billboards, as well as maintaining our current market share of the business concentrated in a few large OOH companies.
•Our product and service offerings, which remain the most integrated and comprehensive offerings in the industry.


item3.txt
Through January 27, 2018, most of our net sales were denominated in U.S. dollars, and our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes on net sales had not been significant.
For the nine months ended January 27, 2018, net sales originating outside the United States were 16.1 percent of total net sales, of which a portion was denominated in Canadian dollars, Euros, Chinese renminbi, British pounds, Australian dollars, Brazilian reais or other currencies.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


