fls.txt
The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future.


item1.txt
Daktronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) are the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts therein.
In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (that is, lessees and lessors).
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase of the leased asset by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842 (Leases) and ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provide (i) narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard, (ii) entities with an additional transition method to adopt the new standard, and (iii) lessors with a practical expedient for separating components of a contract.
We adopted ASU 2016-02 and its related guidance during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 for all agreements existing as of April 28, 2019.
We elected the "comparatives under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 840 option" as a transitional method, which allows us to initially apply the new lease requirements at the effective date.
We elected the package of practical expedients, which permits us not to reassess our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
In addition, we have elected the short-term lease recognition whereby we will not recognize operating leases related assets or liabilities for leases with a lease term of less than one year.
We have also elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components in the lease payments for all asset classes.


item2.txt
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further information.
Our strategies include the creation of a comprehensive line of innovative solutions and systems and our ability to create and leverage platform designs and technologies.
As a result, additional competitors have entered the market, and each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years.
However, the decline of digital solution pricing over the years and increased user adoption and applications have increased the size of the global market.
•The use of architectural lighting products for commercial buildings, which real estate owners use to add accents or effects to an entire side or circumference of a building to communicate messages or to decorate the building.
•Our product and service offerings, including additional micro-LED offerings which remain the most integrated and comprehensive offerings in the industry.
•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays compared to traditional scoreboards and these systems' ability to provide or enhance academic curriculum offerings for students.
•Increased demand for different types of displays and dynamic messaging systems, such as message centers at schools to communicate to students, parents and the broader community.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period.
Fiscal 2020 will be a 53-week year; therefore, the six months ended November 2, 2019 contains operating results for 27 weeks while the six months ended October 27, 2018 contains operating results for 26 weeks.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


