item1.txt
In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2015-17, “Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes.” This ASU amends existing guidance to require that deferred income tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in a classified balance sheet, and eliminates the prior guidance which required an entity to separate deferred tax assets and liabilities into a current amount and a non-current amount in a classified balance sheet.
The Company adopted this standard prospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The implementation resulted in a net reduction of prepaid expense and other current assets of $49.7 million, accrued expense and other current liabilities of $5.3 million, and other long-term liabilities of $39.4 million; and an increase in other assets of $5.0 million in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and had no impact on cash provided by or used in operations for any period presented.
The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded a $40.1 million cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings for the recognition of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits for all years prior to the adoption.
Additionally, the Company has elected to apply the change in cash flow classification on a prospective basis.
The Company has elected to adopt the effects of the standard update with regard to the income tax withholdings obligations on a prospective basis.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-1, “Financial Instruments – Overall – Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” The amendment changes the accounting for and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee.
The amendment provides clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and does not anticipate that implementation will have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a modified-retrospective approach on the earliest period presented.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 using a modified-retrospective approach.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


item2.txt
During the most recent quarter, demand for our products increased primarily due to increased investments from our memory customers.
Technology inflections in our industry, including NVM, multiple patterning, FinFET and advanced packaging have led to an increase in the served addressable market for our products in deposition, etch, single-wafer clean, and customer service business.
We believe that demand for our products and services should increase faster than overall spending on wafer fabrication equipment, as the proportion of customers’ capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas and we continue to gain market share.
In the December 2017 quarter, revenue increased compared to the September 2017 quarter primarily as a result of increased investments from our memory customers.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the December 2017 quarter increased as compared to the September 2017 quarter primarily due to favorable customer and product mix.
Operating expenses in the December 2017 quarter increased compared to the September 2017 quarter mainly due to an increase in employee headcount and outside services.


item3.txt



item4.txt
As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of December 24, 2017, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e).


part2.txt
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
•the dilutive impact of our Convertible Notes (as defined below) and related warrants on our earnings per share.
Negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our Common Stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business units, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets.
If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors.
Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows, particularly in the United States, to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt.


