fls.txt



item1.txt
CSP Inc. ("CSPi" or "CSPI" or "the Company" or "we" or "our") was incorporated in 1968 and is based in Lowell, Massachusetts.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Revenue generated from managed services is recognized over the term of the contract.
The lease components include the hardware and software, which are subject to ASC 840.
Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping.
Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.
HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
For items sold separately, including hardware, software, professional services, maintenance contracts, other services, and third-party service contracts, there is no allocation performed as there is one performance obligation.
When the Company has performed work but does not have an unconditional right to payment, a contract asset is recorded.
When the Company has the right to bill a customer, accounts receivable is recorded as an unconditional right exists.
Current contract assets were $0.6 million and $1.1 million as of June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
There were no non-current contract assets as of June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018.


item2.txt
Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
The increase in revenue is the result of an increase of $2.5 million in our TS segment, offset with a $0.9 million decrease in our HPP segment.
Operating income decreased by approximately $0.1 million from operating income of $0.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 to operating income of $0.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, primarily as a result decrease in gross margin percentage as a percent of revenue partially offset by a decrease in engineering and development expenses of $0.3 million.
The decrease in operating expenses was primarily the result of $0.2 million decrease in our HPP segment.
Our provision for income tax was a tax benefit of $326 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to a tax expense of $249 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Our revenues increased by approximately $1.6 million to $21.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $20.0 million of revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
TS segment revenues increased by $2.5 million, and HPP segment revenues decreased by $0.9 million.
The HPP product revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2019 of $1.6 million, decreased by $0.1 million from $1.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, primarily as a result of a decrease in Myricom product sales.
The decrease in HPP services revenues of $0.9 million is primarily attributed to a $0.8 million decrease in royalties on high-speed processing boards related to the E2D program shipped for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The increase in TS segment product revenues of $2.1 million during the period was primarily the result of an increase in product revenues of $3.3 million in our U.S. division, partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease of product revenue in our U.K. division.
This was primarily due to a $0.5 million increase in the U.S. division service revenues partially offset by a $0.1 million decrease in the U.K. division.


item4.txt



