fls.txt
We discuss many of these risks and uncertainties in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.


item1.txt
CSP Inc. ("CSPi" or "CSPI" or "the Company" or "we" or "our") was incorporated in 1968 and is based in Lowell, Massachusetts.
Effective October 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
third-party services contracts are a single performance obligation in each sale.
Revenue generated from managed services is recognized over the term of the contract.
The lease components include the hardware and software, which are subject to ASC 840.
Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on date of customer shipment.
Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.
Managed service contracts contain the right to refund if canceled within 30 days of inception.
HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
For items sold separately, including hardware, software, professional services, maintenance contracts, other services, and third-party service contracts, there is no allocation performed as there is one performance obligation.
When the Company has the right to bill a customer, accounts receivable is recorded as an unconditional right exists.
Current contract assets were $646 thousand and $1.2 million as of December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
The current portion is recorded in other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
There were no non-current contract assets as of December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018.


item2.txt
Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
See Note 12 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.
The Modcomp GmbH's results have been recorded as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.
Our revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million, or 14%, to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in overall revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the prior fiscal year three month period was substantially the result of an approximately $2.8 million increase in our TS segment revenue, partially offset by an approximately $0.4 million decrease in our HPP segment revenue.
Our operating income decreased by approximately $150 thousand resulting in operating income of $15 thousand for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to operating income of $165 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of increased selling and marketing expenses and increased engineering expenses for the three month period ended December 31, 2018.
Our income tax expense decreased by approximately $1.2 million to an income tax expense of $2 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Our total revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017.


item4.txt
The Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2018.


