 The Company reports the results of operations for Tec-Sem in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment starting from the acquisition date. The revenues and net income from Tec-Sem included in the Company's consolidated results for the three months ended December 31, 2018 were $9.3 million and $1.7 million, respectively. During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the net income included $0.2 million related to the step-up in value of the acquired inventories and $0.9 million related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.  
 The semiconductor cryogenics business consists of the CTI pump business, Polycold chiller business, the related services business and the Company's 50% share in Ulvac Cryogenics, Inc., a joint venture based in Japan. The semiconductor cryogenics business was originally acquired by the Company in its 2005 merger with Helix Technology Corporation and is included in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment as part of the segment.  
 The Brooks Life Sciences segment provides comprehensive life cycle sample management solutions to life science and bioscience customers including complete end-to-end “cold chain of custody” solutions and a variety of sample-based lab services such as genomic sequencing and synthesis to advance scientific research and support drug development. The segment’s product offerings include automated cold sample management systems for compound and biological sample storage, equipment for sample preparation and handling, consumables, and informatics that help customers manage samples throughout their research discovery and development work flows. The segment’s service offerings include sample storage, genomic sequencing, genomic synthesis, lab processing services, lab analysis, and other support services provided to a wide range of life science customers, including pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, biobanks and research institutes.  
 Amortization expense for intangible assets was $7.8 million and $5.5 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.  
 Goodwill of $7.7 million largely reflects the potential synergies and expansion of technical capabilities to the Company's existing contamination control solutions business. The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and is not tax deductible.   
  The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $5.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively, for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and the three months ended December 31, 2017. The tax benefit for the three months ended December 31, 2018 was primarily driven by discrete benefits related to stock compensation windfalls of $3.7 million for 
 Goodwill of $236.5 million largely reflects the potential synergies and expansion of the Company’s core technologies and offerings in the Life Sciences business. The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and is not tax deductible.   
 Reserves for excess and obsolete inventory were $14.9 million and $15.0 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018.  
of Operations. Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.1 million and $2.0 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.  
 The Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment provides a variety of products, services and solutions that enable improved throughput and yield in controlled operating environments, as well as an extensive range of support services. The solutions include atmospheric and vacuum robots, robotic modules, tool automation systems, contamination control of wafer carrier front opening unified pods and reticle management. The support services include repair services, diagnostic support services, and installation services in support of the products, which enable the customers to maximize process tool uptime and productivity. This segment also provides end-user customers with spare parts and productivity enhancement upgrades to maximize tool productivity.   
 On April 6, 2018, the Company acquired approximately 93% of the outstanding capital stock of Tec-Sem Group AG (“Tec-Sem”), a Switzerland-based manufacturer of semiconductor fabrication automation equipment with a focus on reticle management. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company acquired the remaining 7% noncontrolling interest upon the completion of certain procedural steps. The total cash payment to acquire the business was $15.6 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments. The acquisition of Tec-Sem has expanded the Company’s contamination control solutions business within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.   
 Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 is recognized in accordance with ASC 606, while results for the three months ended December 31, 2017 have not been restated and are reported in accordance with the governing revenue recognition standards applicable to that period. Pro forma revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 has been decreased by $0.4 million for the adoption of ASC 606.  
 In conjunction with the acquisition of GENEWIZ during the quarter ended December 31, 2018, the Company reassessed Brooks segment reporting structure and determined that GENEWIZ represents a separate operating segment based on ASC 280. As permitted by ASC 280 Segment Reporting, the Company assessed and elected to aggregate the Sample Management operating segment with the GENEWIZ operating segment as a single reportable segment titled Brooks Life Sciences. We have aggregated the two operating segments as one reporting segment based on similarities in long-term forecasted economic characteristics, particularly adjusted operating income, similarity in services they offer, the customers they serve, the nature of their service delivery models, and their regulatory environments. The Company believes that the aggregated presentation is more useful to investors and other financial users. Management formally assesses the long-term financial outlook of its operating segments on an annual basis as part of its strategic planning process and more frequently on an informal basis. The customer bases of the operating segments overlap, serving life science and bioscience customers in the pharmaceutical, bio-technology, academic and government institutions. Both operating segments, provide services relating to the biological samples needed to advance non-clinical and clinical research, serving scientific and business operations functions. In a typical customer workflow, a biological sample is collected, processed and analyzed with results interpreted and used to make scientific judgements. Critical or valuable samples are then annotated and stored for many years in environments where they can be easily retrieved for additional  Research and development expenses were $13.1 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $11.4 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase of $1.7 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 reflects greater investments in the 2019 period of $1.0 million within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and $0.8 million within the Brooks Life Sciences segment. Higher research and development expenses during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the same period of prior fiscal year were primarily attributable new acquisitions and higher employee related costs.   
 We reported gross margins of 40.2% for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to 38.1% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Gross margin increased in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment by 0.3 percentage points and in the Brooks Life Sciences segment by 6.0 percentage points in the 2019 period over the 2018 period. Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included $2.0 million of charges for amortization related to completed technology as compared to $0.9 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 also included $0.2 million of charges related to the inventory step-up in purchase accounting, as compared to $1.2 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Excluding the purchasing accounting impact related to inventory step-up and the amortization of completed technology, gross margins expanded 1.9 percentage points during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The difference in reported gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net increase in gross profit of $0.1 million.   
 Our Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment reported gross margins of 40.7% for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 40.5% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase is driven by volume leverage of fixed costs partially offset by higher warranty expense. Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included $0.9 million of charges for amortization related to completed technology as compared to $0.5 million incurred during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The results for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included $0.2 million of charges related to the inventory step-up in purchase accounting. There were no such charges during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Excluding the purchase accounting impact and the amortization of completed technology, margins expanded 0.7 percentage points during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The difference in reported gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net increase in gross profit of $0.4 million.  
 We incurred revenue and net income from discontinued operations of $39.3 million and $8.1 million, respectively for the three months ended December 31, 2018 related to our semiconductor cryogenics business as compared to $46.7 million and $14.9 million, respectively for the three months ended December 31, 2017. The net income is inclusive of income from the Ulvac Cryogenics, Inc. joint venture in 2018 and 2017. The income from discontinued operations only 
 Our Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment reported revenue of $112.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to $95.2 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $17.5 million, or 18%. The increase was primarily driven by increases in sales of system automation products, semiconductor services and contamination control systems, partially offset by a decline in sales of robotic automation products. Additionally, the acquisition of Tec-Sem contributed incremental revenue of $9.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The semiconductor markets are cyclical and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Demand for our Brooks Semiconductor Solution Group products is affected by these cycles. The difference in reported revenue in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net increase of $0.4 million.   