Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to interest rate risk relates to certain types of investments, which consist of fixed income securities and debt mutual funds with a fair value of approximately $1.70 billion as of September 28, 2019.
The fixed income investments include mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities.
Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs.
In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating.
These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase.
A hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at September 28, 2019 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $18.0 million.
Credit Market Risk

The global credit markets may experience adverse conditions that negatively impact the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities.
The global credit and capital markets may experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability.
Therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate.
See "Note 5.
Financial Instruments" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part 1.
"Financial Information."
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars.
Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained and the hedged relationship has been effective, are deferred and included in income or expenses in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled.
Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of income as they are incurred.
As part of our strategy to reduce volatility of operating expenses due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we employ a hedging program with forward outlook of up to two years for major foreign-currency-denominated operating expenses.
The outstanding forward currency exchange contracts expire at various dates through September 2021.
The net unrealized losses, which approximate the fair market value of the forward currency exchange contracts, are expected to be realized into net income within the next two years.
Our investments in several of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
As the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments.
These fluctuations are recorded within stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
Other monetary foreign-denominated assets and liabilities are revalued on a monthly basis with gains and losses on revaluation reflected in net income.
A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates at September 28, 2019 would have affected the annualized foreign-currency-denominated operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries by less than $16.0 million.
In addition, a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at September 28, 2019 would have affected the value of foreign-currency-denominated cash and investments by less than $15.0 million.
