Item 4: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that we file and submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.
Disclosure controls also are designed to reasonably assure that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Disclosure controls include components of internal control over financial reporting, which consists of control processes designated to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
We monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis our disclosure controls and procedures in order to improve their overall effectiveness.
In the course of these evaluations, we modify and refine our internal processes and controls as conditions warrant.
Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our “disclosure controls and procedures” (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act) as of June 30, 2018.
Based on this evaluation the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that as a result of not having completed the remediation of the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting identified and described in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of June 30, 2018.
Remediation Plans



•The strengthening of controls for income taxes in 2018 with the use of additional resources and expanded use of independent third party resources and outside legal tax counsel

•Reviewing and revising internal procedures surrounding valuation accounting, including the use of independent third party resources, internal review and documentation processes.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The above described remediation actions are changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) or Rule 15d-15(f)) made in the second quarter of 2018 or in the process of being made that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Item 4: MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 

Not applicable.
Item 6: EXHIBITS

The exhibits filed herewith or incorporated by reference herein are listed in the Exhibit Index attached hereto.
EXHIBITS INDEX



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
