Part II — OTHER INFORMATION
Item 1: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
The Company is involved in various other claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate likely disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
Item 1A: RISK FACTORS
Item 2: REPURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Item 3: DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES
None.
Item 4: MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
Item 5: OTHER INFORMATION
On February 21, 2018, Ebix, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Sixth Amendment (the “Sixth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement.
The Sixth Amendment amends the Regions Credit Facility by increasing its existing credit facility from $450 million to$650 million, to assist in funding its growth.
The increase in the bank line was the result of many members of the existing bank group expanding their share of the credit facility and the addition of BBVA Compass and Bank Of The West to the Banking Syndicate, which further diversifies Ebix’s lending group under the credit facility to ten participants.The syndicated bank group now comprises ten leading financial institutions that include Regions Bank, PNC Bank, BMO Harris Bank, BBVA Compass, Fifth Third Bank, KeyBank, Bank Of The West, Silicon Valley Bank, Cadence Bank and Trustmark National Bank.
Regions Bank continued to lead the banking group while serving as the administrative and collateral agent.
PNC Bank and BMO Harris Bank were added as co syndication agents, BBVA Compass and Fifth Third Bank as co documentation agent, while Regions Capital Markets, PNC Capital Markets and BMO Harris Bank acted as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners.
The new credit facility has the following key components; A five-year term loan for $250 million, with initial repayments starting June 30, 2018 due in the amount $3.13 million for the first eight quarters and increasing thereafter and a five-year revolving credit facility for $400
million.
The new credit facility, also, allows for up to $150 million of incremental facilities.
The Regions Secured Credit Facility carries a leverage-based LIBOR related interest rate, which currently stands at approximately 3.88%.
On November 3, 2017 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fifth Amendment (the “Fifth Amendment”) to the Regions Secured Credit Facility, dated August 5, 2014, among the Company, Regions Bank as Administrative and Collateral Agent ("Regions") and certain other lenders party thereto (as amended, the "Credit Agreement") to exercise $50 million of its aggregate $100 million accordion option, increasing the total Term Loan Commitment to$175 million.
$20 million of the increase was funded on November 3, 2017 and the remaining $30 million shall be disbursed upon the satisfaction of certain closing requirements set forth in the Fifth Amendment.
Both such disbursements are tied to permitted acquisitions as set forth in the Fifth Amendment.
On November 3, 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fourth Amendment and Waiver (the “Fourth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement.
The Fourth Amendment waives certain technical defaults related to the failure to give required notice with respect to i) the existence of a subsidiary having intellectual property with an aggregate value above a stipulated amount and ii) the additional investment in a joint venture entity resulting in that entity becoming a subsidiary of the Company for the purpose of the Credit Agreement.
In addition to such waiver, the Fourth Amendment also loosened the leverage ratios the Company is required to satisfy in connection with permitted acquisitions and for compliance generally.
Item 6: EXHIBITS
The exhibits filed herewith or incorporated by reference herein are listed in the Exhibit Index attached hereto.
EXHIBITS INDEX
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
