Item 2: MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
This information includes assumptions made by, and information currently available to management, including statements regarding future economic performance and financial condition, liquidity and capital resources, acceptance of the Company’s products by the market, and management’s plans and objectives.
In addition, certain statements included in this and our future filings with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval, which are not statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements.
Words such as “may,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “seeks,” “plan,” “project,” “continue,” “predict,” “will,” and other words or expressions of similar meaning are intended 

by the Company to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words.
These forward-looking statements are found at various places throughout this report and in the documents incorporated herein by reference.
These statements are based on our current expectations about future events or results and information that is currently available to us, involve assumptions, risks, and uncertainties, and speak only as of the date on which such statements are made.
Our actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 which is incorporated by reference herein, and in Part II, Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-Q, including but not limited to: the willingness of independent insurance agencies to outsource their computer and other processing needs to third parties; pricing and other competitive pressures and the Company’s ability to gain or maintain share of sales as a result of actions by competitors and others; changes in estimates in critical accounting judgments; changes in or failure to comply with laws and regulations, including accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax interpretations) in domestic or foreign jurisdictions; exchange rate fluctuations and other risks associated with investments and operations in foreign countries (particularly in Australia, Asia, Latin America, and Europe wherein we have significant and/or growing operations); fluctuations in the equity markets, including market disruptions and significant interest rate fluctuations, which may impede our access to, or increase the cost of, external financing; and international conflict, including terrorist acts.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any such factors, or to publicly announce the results of, or changes to any of the forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect future events, developments, changed circumstances, or for any other reason.
Other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in our specific forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to, the following:

•Our ability to efficiently and effectively integrate acquired business operations, as discussed in Note 3 of the Condensed Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements pertaining to the business acquisitions we have made; 

•Note 4 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, "Debt with Commercial Bank" and our future liquidity needs discussed under “Liquidity and Financial Condition” regarding our ability to generate cash from operating activities and any declines in our credit ratings or financial condition which could restrict our access to the capital markets or materially increase our financing costs;



Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including future reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, and any amendments thereto.
You may obtain our SEC filings at our website, www.ebix.com under the “Investor Information” section, or over the Internet at the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov.
Company Overview




Ebix's goal is to be the leading powerhouse of insurance and financial transactions in the world.
The Company’s technology vision is to focus on the convergence of all channels, processes and entities in a manner such that data seamlessly flows once a data entry has initially been made.
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
Ebix combines the newest technologies with its capabilities in consulting, systems design and integration, IT and business process outsourcing, applications software, and web and application hosting to meet the individual needs of organizations.
Offices and Geographic Information

The Company’s corporate headquarters, including substantially all of our corporate administration and finance functions, is located in Johns Creek, Georgia where we own a commercial office building.
In addition the Company and its subsidiaries lease office space primarily for sales and operations support in Salt Lake City, Utah, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Pasadena, California, Grove City, Ohio, New Britain, Connecticut, Birmingham, Alabama, Irvine, California and Phoenix, Arizona.
Additionally, the Company leases office space in New Zealand, Australia, Singapore, Brazil, Canada, and London for support, operations and sales offices.
The Company also leases facilities all over the world, while owning five facilities in India.
The Indian facilities provide software development and other technical and business process outsourcing services.
In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
Results of Operations — Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 

Operating Revenue 

The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
International revenue accounted for 68.8% and 61.2% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019 our total operating revenues increased $19.6 million or 16%, to $144.3 million as compared to $124.6 million during the second quarter of 2018.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the growth in the EbixCash segment as well as the acquisitions made by Ebix in the last twelve months offset by reductions in our U.S. consulting, EbixHealth JV and our e-governance service contracts for BSNL and then executed within the Ebix Vayam Limited JV.
Reported revenues were impacted by the continuing weakening in the foreign currencies in which we conduct operations (particularly in India, Australia, Brazil, and Great Britain) as compared to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar.
Specifically, the 

adverse impact from fluctuations of the exchange rates for the foreign currencies in the countries in which we conduct operations, in the aggregate reduced reported revenues by $3.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2019 and 2018 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3, combined revenues increased 2.0% for the three months ending June 30, 2019 versus the same periods in 2018.
The 2019 and 2018 pro forma financial information assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2018, whereas the Company's reported condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended June 30, 2019 only includes the revenues from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired or consolidated by Ebix, being February 2018 for Transcorp, April 2018 for Centrum, April 2018 for Smartclass, July 2018 for Indus, July 2018 for Mercury, July 2018 for Leisure, August 2018 for Miles, October 2018 for Routier, October 2018 for Business Travels, October 2018 for Wahh Taxis, December 2018 for Pearl, Weizmann, January 2019 for Zillious (acquired January 2019), and January 2019 for Essel.
Revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 actual and proforma include $159 thousand and $4.0 million revenue, respectively, from the e-governance business.
The company has consciously decided to disengage in the e-governance business, leading to an actual and proforma year over year decrease of revenue of $3.8 million in this revenue outlet.
•2019 and 2018 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
•Any existing products sold to new customers obtained through a newly acquired customer base are assigned to the acquired section of our business.
Cost of Services Provided

Costs of services provided, which includes costs associated with customer support, consulting, implementation, and training services, increased $7.4 million or 17%, to $51.0 million in the second quarter of 2019 as compared to $43.6 million in the second quarter of 2018.
The increase in the Company's costs of services provided is due primarily to additional personnel, consulting, customer support, and merchant bank service fee costs associated with the Company's 2018 India acquisitions in the travel, foreign exchange, and software solutions sectors offset by reductions in our U.S. consulting salary costs and a reduction of our e-governance service contracts executed within the Ebix Vayam Limited JV.
Product Development Expenses

The Company’s product development efforts are focused on the development of new technologies for insurance carriers, brokers and agents, and the development of new data exchanges for use in domestic and international insurance markets.
Product development expenses increased $2.7 million or 31% to $11.4 million during the second quarter of 2019 as compared to $8.7 million during the second quarter of 2018.
This increase is primarily due to costs associated with the operations of the recent acquisition of Indus and Miles.
Sales and Marketing Expenses

Sales and marketing expenses decreased $330 thousand or 7%, to $4.5 million in the second quarter of 2019 as compared to $4.8 million in the second quarter of 2018.
General and Administrative Expenses

Reported general and administrative expenses increased $6.1 million or 23% to $32.9 million in the second quarter of 2019 as compared to $26.7 million in the second quarter of 2018 primarily due to costs associated with the Company's 2018 India acquisitions in the foreign exchange and software solutions sectors.
Amortization and Depreciation Expenses

Amortization and depreciation expenses increased $749 thousand or 30% to $3.3 million in the second quarter of 2019 as compared to $2.5 million in the second quarter of 2018 primarily due to costs associated with the Company's 2018 India acquisitions.
Interest Income

Interest income increased $44 thousand or 52% to $129 thousand in the second quarter of 2019 as compared to $85 thousand in the second quarter of 2018 primarily due to increased balances in interest bearing accounts.
Interest Expense

Interest expense increased $6.0 million or 105%, to $11.8 million in the second quarter of 2019 as compared to $5.8 million in the second quarter of 2018.
Interest expense increased primarily due to the increase in the average outstanding balance on our commercial banking credit facilities, which increased 40% to $725.4 million during Q2 2019 from $519.2 million during Q2 of 2018, as well as an increase in the underlying interest rate which increased to 5.0% for Q2 2019 versus 4.3% for Q2 2018.
Additionally, interest expense increased due to increased balances in the working capital facility of our EbixCash operations in India.
Foreign Currency Exchange Gain (Loss)

Net foreign currency exchange gains for the three months ended June 30, 2019 in the amount of $401 thousand consists of $169 thousand of gains realized upon the settlement of receivables or payables and re-measurement of cash balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument, and $232 thousand of unrealized gains pertaining to the re-measurement of outstanding receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument.
Income Taxes 

The Company recorded net income tax expense of $1.00 million (3.42%) during the second quarter of 2019 which included gross tax benefit of zero from certain discrete items.
The income tax expense exclusive of discrete items was $1.00 million (3.42%).Our tax expense and effective tax rate has decreased year over year due to recording of one time Transition tax liability last year resulting from the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”).
The Company expects its full year effective tax rate to be in the range of 7% to 8%.
Results of Operations — Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 

Operating Revenue

During the six months ended June 30, 2019 our total operating revenues increased $54.3 million or 23%, to $287.2 million as compared to $232.9 million during the same period in 2018.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the growth in the EbixCash segment as well as the acquisitions made by Ebix in the last twelve months offset by reductions in our U.S. consulting, EbixHealth JV and our e-governance service contracts for BSNL and then executed within the Ebix Vayam Limited JV.
International revenue accounted for 68.3% and 57.8% of the Company’s total revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2019 and 2018 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3, combined revenues increased 3% for the six months ending June 30, 2019 versus the same periods in 2018.
The 2019 and 2018 pro forma financial information assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2018, whereas the Company's reported condensed consolidated financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2019 only includes the revenues from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired or consolidated by Ebix, being February 2018 for Transcorp, April 2018 for Centrum, April 2018 for Smartclass, July 2018 for Indus, July 2018 for Mercury, July 2018 for Leisure, August 2018 for Miles, October 2018 for Routier, October 2018 for Business Travels, October 2018 for Wahh Taxis, December 2018 for Pearl, Weizmann, January 2019 for Zillious (acquired January 2019), and January 2019 for Essel.
Revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 actual and proforma include $246 thousand and $10.2 million revenue, respectively, from the e-governance business.
The company has consciously decided to disengage in the e-governance business, leading to an actual and proforma year over year decrease of revenue of $10.0 million this revenue outlet.
•2019 and 2018 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
•Any existing products sold to new customers obtained through a newly acquired customer base are assigned to the acquired section of our business.
Cost of Services Provided

Costs of services provided, which includes costs associated with maintenance, customer support, call center, consulting, implementation and training services, increased $13.7 million or 17%, to $96.9 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $83.2 million during the same period in 2018.
The increase in the Company's costs of services provided is due primarily to additional personnel, consulting, customer support, and merchant bank service fee costs associated with the Company's 2018 India acquisitions in the travel, foreign exchange, and software solutions sectors offset by reductions in our U.S. consulting salary costs and a reduction of our e-governance service contracts executed within the Ebix Vayam Limited JV.
Product Development Expenses

The Company’s product development efforts are focused on the development of new technologies for insurance carriers, brokers and agents, and the development of new data exchanges for use in domestic and international insurance markets.
Product development expenses increased $5.5 million or 32%, to $22.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $17.1 million during the same period in 2018.
This increase is primarily due to costs associated with the operations of the recent acquisition of Indus and Miles.
Sales and Marketing Expenses

Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.8 million or 20%, to $10.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $8.8 million during the same period in 2018 primarily due to promotional activities in India.
General and Administrative Expenses

Reported general and administrative expenses increased $8.1 million or 17% to $54.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $46.2 million during the same period in 2018 primarily due to costs associated with the Company's 2018 India acquisitions in the travel, foreign exchange, e-learning and software solutions sectors offset by a $(17.1) million reduction of acquisition earnout accrual for ItzCash, Indus and Wdev.
Amortization and Depreciation Expenses

Amortization and depreciation expenses increased $2.0 million or 37% to $7.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $5.3 million during the same period in 2018 primarily due to costs associated with the Company's 2018 India acquisitions.
Interest Income

Interest income increased $273 thousand or 133% to $479 thousand during the six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $206 thousand during the same period in 2018 primarily due to increased balances in interest bearing accounts.
Interest Expense

Interest expense increased $11.0 million or 104% to $21.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $10.6 million during the same period in 2018.
Interest expense increased primarily due to the increase in the average outstanding balance on our commercial banking credit facilities, which increased 36% to $725.5 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019 from $461.1 million during the six months ending June 30 2018, as well as an increase in the underlying average interest rate which increased to an average of 5.0% during the six months ending June 30, 2019 versus 4.25% for the same six month period in 2018.
Additionally, interest expense increased due to increased balances in the working capital facility of our EbixCash operations in India.
Foreign Currency Exchange Gain (Loss)

Net foreign currency exchange gains for the six months ended June 30, 2019 in the amount of $146 thousand consists of $227 thousand of gains realized upon the settlement of receivables or payables and re-measurement of cash balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument, partially offset by $81 thousand of unrealized losses pertaining to the re-measurement of outstanding receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument.
Income Taxes

The Company recorded net income tax expense of $80 thousand (.15%) during the six months ended June 30, 2019 which included gross tax benefit of $4.2 million from certain discrete items related to deferred tax true-up related to tax carrying value of assets versus carrying value as per the books.
The income tax expense exclusive of discrete items was $4.08 million (7.65%) during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Our tax expense and effective tax rate has decreased year over year due to recording of one time Transition tax liability last year resulting from the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”).
The Company expects its full year effective tax rate to be in the range of 7% to 8%.
Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company's ability to generate significant cash flows from ongoing operating activities is one of its fundamental financial strengths.
Our principal sources of liquidity are the cash flows provided by the Company's operating activities, the Company's commercial banking credit facility, and cash and cash equivalents on hand.
Due to the effect of temporary or timing differences resulting from the differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes (including the treatment of net operating loss carry-forwards and minimum alternative tax obligations in the U.S., Great Britain, and India), future cash outlays for income taxes are expected to exceed income tax expense.
We intend to utilize cash flows generated by our operations, in combination with our commercial bank credit facility, and the possible issuance of additional equity or debt securities, to fund capital expenditures and organic growth initiatives, to make strategic and accretive business acquisitions in the insurance services sector, and to re-purchase shares of our common stock as market conditions warrant.
We believe that anticipated cash flows provided by our operating activities, together with current cash and cash equivalent balances, access to our credit facilities, and access to the capital markets, if required and available, will be sufficient to meet our projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future, although any projections of future cash needs, cash flows, and the condition of the capital markets in general, as to the availability of debt and equity financing, are subject to substantial uncertainty.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $102.2 million and $147.8 million at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The $4.4 million of restricted fiduciary funds is associated with the EbixHealth JV and pertains to un-remitted insurance premiums and claim funds established for the benefit of various carriers which are held in a fiduciary capacity until disbursed.
Our current ratio increased slightly to 1.36 at June 30, 2019 from 1.35 at December 31, 2018 while our working capital position decreased to $97.7 million at June 30, 2019 from $110.0 million at the end of 2018.
Our short-term liquidity has decreased primarily due to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and an increase in working capital facility and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents, partially offset by a decrease in other current liabilities and earnout contingencies.
The Company's days sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("DSO") was 111 days at June 30, 2019 up 8 days from 103 days at March 31, 2019.
The increase is primarily due to new Ebix Cash sales and growth initiatives in the business exchange, trucking logistics and travel related business.
We believe that Ebix's ability to generate sustainable and robust cash flows from operations will enable the Company to continue to fund its current liabilities from current assets including available cash balances for the foreseeable future.
Business Combinations

The Company seeks to execute accretive business acquisitions in combination with organic growth initiatives as part of

 its comprehensive business growth and expansion strategy.
The Company looks to acquire businesses that are complementary to Ebix's existing products and services.
Effective January 1, 2019, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Essel Forex for approximately $7.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $721 thousand based on earned revenues.
Ebix funded the entire transaction in cash, using its internal cash reserves.
Essel Forex has been one of the five largest Foreign exchange providers in India with a wide spectrum of related products including sales of all major currencies, travelers’ checks, demand drafts, remittances, money transfers and prepaid cards primarily for the corporate clients.
Besides being a foreign exchange business partner to leading banks such as ICICI, Axis, Indus Ind, Yes and HDFC Bank, Essel Forex has been associated with Western Union and MoneyGram for inward money transfers.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective January 1, 2019, Ebix acquired an 80% controlling stake in India based Zillious for $10.1 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $2.2 million based on earned revenues.
Zillious is an on-demand SaaS travel technology solution, with market leadership in the corporate travel segment in India.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired 74.84% controlling stake in India based Weizmann for $63.1 million and also made a time bound public offer to acquire the remaining 25.16% publicly-held Weizmann Forex shares for approximately $21.1 million to public shareholders.
The $77.35 million reported on the cash flows from investing activities includes a decrease in previously reported cash acquired of $1.5 million and an additional 15.1% of the publicly-held Weizmann Forex shares for $12.7 million.
As of June 30, 2019 Ebix has approximately 89.94% of the controlling stake in India based Weizmann.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Pearl, a provider of a comprehensive range of B2B and B2C travel services, under the brand name ‘Sastiticket’, ranging from domestic and international ticketing, incentives travel, leisure products, luxury holidays, and travel documentation for $3.4 million and has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations, which has brought in operational synergies and certain redundancies for the acquired operations.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Lawson, a B2B provider of travel services and international ticketing, for $2.7 million and has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations to bring in operational synergies and wider country wide footprint.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective October 1, 2018, Ebix acquired a 70% stake in India based AHA Taxis, a platform for on-demand inter-city cabs in India for $310 thousand.
Consideration of $71 thousand was paid during the fourth quarter of 2018 and $214 thousand during the first quarter of 2019.
AHA focuses its attention on Corporate and Consumer inter-city travel primarily with a network of thousands of registered AHA Taxis.
Effective October 1, 2018, Ebix acquired a 67% stake in India based Routier, a marketplace for trucking logistics for $413 thousand.
Effective October 1, 2018, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Business Travels for $1.1 million and same has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations to expand the wholesale travel and consolidation business.
Consideration of $414 thousand was paid during the fourth quarter of 2018 and $689 thousand during the first quarter of 2019.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective August 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Miles, a provider of on-demand software on wealth and asset management to banks, asset managers and wealth management firms, for approximately $18.3 million, plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $8.3 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $5.6 million as of June 30, 2019.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Leisure for approximately $2.1 million, with the goal of creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Mercury Travels for approximately $13.2 million, with the goal of creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market.
Mercury’s Forex business was integrated into EbixCash’s existing CDL Forex exchange business.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix acquired Indus, a global provider of enterprise lending software solutions to financial institutions, captive auto finance and telecom companies, for approximately $22.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $5.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $1.7 million as of June 30, 2019.
Effective April 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Centrum, a leader in India’s foreign exchange and outward remittance markets for approximately $179.5 million.
This acquisition was funded June 2018.
Centrum was integrated into Ebix’s Financial 

Exchange EbixCash offering in India and abroad, with key Centrum business executives becoming an integral part of the combined EbixCash senior leadership.
Effective April 1, 2018, Ebix acquired a 60% stake in India based Smartclass , a leading e-learning Company engaged in the business of education services, development of education products, and implementation of education solutions for K-12 Schools.
Under the terms of the agreement Ebix paid $8.6 million in cash for its stake in Smartclass.
Effective February 1, 2018, Ebix acquired Transcorp for upfront cash consideration in the amount of $7.25 million, of which $6.55 million was funded with cash and $700 thousand assumed in liabilities.
Operating Activities

Net cash provided by our operating activities was $38.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019.
The primary components of the cash provided by our operating activities during the six-month period consisted of net income of $54.6 million, net of $81 thousand of unrealized foreign currency exchange gains, $7.3 million of depreciation and amortization, $(1.2) million of net income attributable to a non-controlling interest, $1.4 million of non-cash share-based compensation, $3.5 million of right-of-use assets amortization, $1.2 million of amortization of capitalized software development costs and $(11.6) million of working capital requirements primarily due to increased outstanding trade accounts receivable, deferred revenue and provision for deferred taxes.
Partially offsetting this net cash inflow was $17.1 million of non-cash gains recognized upon the reduction in acquisition earnout contingent liabilities.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019 the Company made $6.5 million of tax payments.
Net cash provided by our operating activities was $39.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
The primary

components of the cash provided by our operating activities during the six month period consisted of net income of $55.4 million, net of $1.3 million of unrealized foreign currency exchange gains, $5.3 million of depreciation and amortization, $139 thousand of net income attributable to a non-controlling interest, $1.5 million of non-cash share-based compensation, and $1.1 million of amortization of capitalized software development costs.
Partially offsetting this net cash inflow was $(24.8) million of working capital requirements primarily due to increased outstanding trade accounts receivable and other assets and a decrease in deferred revenues.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 the Company made $8.4 million of tax payments including $2.5 million of minimum alternative tax payments in India, which is a component of net deferred tax assets on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Investing Activities 

Net cash used for investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $100.8 million, and consisted of $77.4 million (net of cash acquired) used for the acquisition of Weizmann (acquired December 2018), $8.0 million used for other Q4 2018 acquisition in India not previously funded, $9.8 million used for the acquisition of Zillious, $7.9 million (net of cash acquired) used for the acquisition of Essel, $4.9 million to reacquire Paul Merchant's 10% equity interest in Ebix’s combined international remittance business in India, $4.7 million primarily for capital expenditures in India , and $2.6 million for software development costs that were capitalized.
Partially offsetting these outflows was $14.5 million from the net maturities of marketable securities (specifically bank certificates of deposit).
Net cash used for investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $177.9 million, and consisted of

$166.0 million (net of cash acquired) used for the acquisition of Centrum, $7.6 million (net of cash acquired) used for the acquisition of SmartClass, $6.6 million used for the acquisition of Transcorp, $1.5 million for the expansion of our product development facilities in India and the continued build out of our global corporate headquarters campus in Johns Creek, Georgia, and $2.0 million for software development costs that were capitalized.
Partially offsetting these outflows was $5.0 million received from Paul Merchants for a 10% equity interest in Ebix’s combined international remittance business in India and, $725 thousand from the net maturities of marketable securities (specifically bank certificates of deposit).
Financing Activities

During the six months ended June 30, 2019, net cash provided by financing activities was $36.1 million which consisted of $13.5 million provided by the Company's revolving credit facility with Regions, $5.1 million net proceeds from short term third party loans as part of its EbixCash operations, and $41.6 million net provided by the EbixCash working capital facility in India.
Partially offsetting the cash inflows were $4.6 million to pay quarterly dividends to our common stockholder, $11.0 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock and $7.5 million was used to make the scheduled payments against the existing term loan with Regions.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 net cash provided by financing activities was $193.7 million which consisted of $124.3 million provided by the refinancing and borrowing from the amended and expanded syndicated credit facility with Regions Bank, $205.0 million provided by the Company's revolving credit facility with Regions.
Partially offsetting this cash inflow were $120.8 million used as part of the refinancing and borrowing from the amended and expanded syndicated credit facility with Regions Bank, $4.7 million was used to pay quarterly dividends to our common stockholder, $4.6 million net payments of the EbixCash working capital facility in India, and $3.1 million was used to make the scheduled payments against the existing term loan with Regions.
Commercial Bank Financing Facility

At June 30, 2019 the Company's consolidated balance sheet includes $5.2 million of remaining deferred financing costs in connection with this Credit Agreement, which are being amortized as a component of interest expense over the five-year term of the financing agreement.
In regards to these deferred financing costs, $3.1 million pertains to the revolving line of credit component of the Credit Agreement, and $2.1 million pertains to the term loan component of the Credit Agreement of which $575 thousand is netted against the current portion and $1.5 million is netted against the long-term portions of the term loan as reported on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
At June 30, 2019, the outstanding balance on the revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement was $438.0 million and the facility carried an interest rate of 5.00%.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, $13.5 million of draws were made off of the revolving credit facility.
The revolving line of credit balance is included in the long-term liabilities section of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, the average and maximum outstanding balances of the revolving line of credit component of the credit facility were $436.2 million and $438.0 million, respectively.
At June 30, 2019, the outstanding balance on the term loan was $283.7 million of which $16.9 million is due within the next twelve months, with $7.53 million payments having been made during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
This term loan also carried an interest rate of 5.00% .
The current and long-term portions of the term loan are included in the respective current and long-term sections of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amounts of which were $16.9 million and $266.8 million respectively at June 30, 2019.
Contractual Obligations 

For a presentation regarding material changes outside the ordinary course of business to the Company's contractual obligations please refer to Notes 3, 4 and 5 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

 We do not engage in off balance sheet financing arrangements.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements

For information about new accounting pronouncements and the potential impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 1 of the condensed notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q and Note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in our 2018 Form 10-K.
Application of Critical Accounting Policies 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity GAAP, as promulgated in the United States, requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes.
We believe the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain.
The following accounting policies involve the use of “critical accounting estimates” because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made.
In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different estimates reasonably could have been used in the current period, and changes in the accounting estimates that we used are reasonably likely to occur from period to period both of which may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
For additional information about these policies, see Note 1 of the Condensed Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q.
Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are limited based upon information presently available.
Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions.
Revenue Recognition

There have been no changes in our critical accounting policies related to revenue recognition as discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (our “ 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K”).
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Receivable

Management specifically analyzes accounts receivable and historical bad debts, write-offs, customer concentrations, customer credit-worthiness, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment terms when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts.
Valuation of Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

Goodwill represents the cost in excess of the fair value of the net assets of acquired businesses.
Indefinite-lived intangible assets represent the fair value of acquired contractual customer relationships for which future cash flows are expected to continue indefinitely.
In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would likely have reduced the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.
Potential impairment indicators include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, and the sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business.
The impairment evaluation process first involves an assessment of certain qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of any of our reporting units was less than its carrying amount.
If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we were to determine that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then we would not perform the two-step quantitative impairment testing described further below.
The aforementioned two-step quantitative testing process involves comparing the reporting unit carrying values to their respective fair values.
We determine the fair value of our reporting units by applying the discounted cash flow method using the present value of future estimated net cash flows.
If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then no further testing is required.
However, if a reporting unit's fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeded its implied value.
Projections of cash flows are based on our views of growth rates, operating costs, anticipated future economic conditions and the appropriate discount rates relative to risk and estimates of residual values.
We believe that our estimates are consistent with assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value.
The use of different estimates or assumptions for our projected discounted cash flows (e.g., growth rates, future economic conditions, discount rates and estimates of terminal values) when determining the fair value of our reporting units could result in different values and may result in a goodwill impairment charge.
We perform our annual goodwill impairment evaluation and testing as of September 30th of each year.
This evaluation is done during the fourth quarter each year.
During the year ended December 31, 2018 we had no impairment of our reporting unit goodwill balances.
Valuation of Contingent Liabilities related to Earn-Out Obligations from Business Acquisitions


Income Taxes

Deferred income taxes are recorded to reflect the estimated future tax effects of differences between financial statement and tax basis of assets, liabilities, operating losses, and tax credit carry forwards using the tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse.
Valuation allowances, if any, are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount management considers more likely than not to be realized.
Such valuation allowances are recorded for the portion of the deferred tax assets that are not expected to be realized based on the levels of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income over the periods in which the temporary differences will be deductible.
The Company also applies FASB accounting guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes positions.
This guidance clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements.
Foreign Currency Matters

The functional currency for the Company's foreign subsidiaries in Dubai and Singapore is the U.S. dollar because the intellectual property research and development activities provided by its Dubai and Singapore subsidiary, and the product development and information technology enabled services activities for the insurance industry provided by its India subsidiary, both in support of Ebix's operating divisions across the world, are transacted in U.S. dollars.
The functional currency of the Company's other foreign subsidiaries is the local currency of the country in which the subsidiary operates.
The assets and liabilities of these foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet dates.
Income and expense accounts are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the period.
Gains and losses resulting from translation adjustments are included as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses that are derived from transactions denominated in a currency other than the subsidiary's functional currency are included in the determination of net income.
