Item 2: MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
This information includes assumptions made by, and information currently available to management, including statements regarding future economic performance and financial condition, liquidity and capital resources, acceptance of the Company’s products by the market, and management’s plans and objectives.
In addition, certain statements included in this and our future filings with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval, which are not statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements.
Words such as “may,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “seeks,” “plan,” “project,” “continue,” “predict,” “will,” and other words or expressions of similar meaning are intended by the Company to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words.
These forward-looking statements are found at various places throughout this report and in the documents incorporated herein by reference.
These statements are based on our current expectations about future events or results and information that is currently available to us, involve assumptions, risks, and uncertainties, and speak only as of the date on which such statements are made.
 Our actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 which is incorporated by reference herein, and in Part II, Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-Q, including but not limited to: the willingness of independent insurance agencies to outsource their computer and other processing needs to third parties; pricing and other competitive pressures and the Company’s ability to gain or maintain share of sales as a result of actions by competitors and others; changes in estimates in critical accounting judgments; changes in or failure to comply with laws and regulations, including accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax interpretations) in domestic or foreign jurisdictions; exchange rate fluctuations and other risks associated with investments and operations in foreign countries (particularly in Australia, Asia, Latin America, and Europe wherein we have significant and/or growing operations); fluctuations in the equity markets, including market disruptions and significant interest rate fluctuations, which may impede our access to, or increase the cost of, external financing; and international conflict, including terrorist acts.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any such factors, or to publicly announce the results of, or changes to any of the forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect future events, developments, changed circumstances, or for any other reason.
Other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in our specific forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to, the following:
•Our ability to efficiently and effectively integrate acquired business operations, as discussed in Note 3 of the Condensed Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements pertaining to the business acquisitions we have made;
•Note 4 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, "Debt with Commercial Bank" and our future liquidity needs discussed under “Liquidity and Financial Condition” regarding our ability to generate cash from operating
activities and any declines in our credit ratings or financial condition which could restrict our access to the capital markets or materially increase our financing costs;
Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including future reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, and any amendments thereto.
You may obtain our SEC filings at our website, www.ebix.com under the “Investor Information” section, or over the Internet at the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov.
Company Overview
Ebix is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also, providing SaaS enterprise solutions in the area of CRM, front-end and back-end systems, outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines 231,500 physical distribution outlets in many ASEAN countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio encompasses leadership in areas of domestic and international money remittance, travel, pre-paid and gift cards, utility payments, etc., in emerging countries such as India.
EbixCash, through its travel portal Via.com, is also one of Southeast Asia’s leading travel exchanges with over 110,000 distribution outlets and 8,000 corporate clients processing over 24.5 million transactions every year.
Ebix's goal is to be the leading powerhouse of insurance and financial transactions in the world.
The Company’s technology vision is to focus on the convergence of all channels, processes and entities in a manner such that data seamlessly flows once a data entry has initially been made.
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
Ebix combines the newest technologies with its capabilities in consulting, systems design and integration, IT and business process outsourcing, applications software, and web and application hosting to meet the individual needs of organizations.
Offices and Geographic Information
The Company has its worldwide headquarters in Johns Creek, Georgia with its international operations being managed from its Singapore offices, and it also has domestic operations in Santa Barbara, Pasadena and Hemet, California; Miami, Florida; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Salt Lake City, Utah; Grove City, Ohio; Bohemia, New York; Norwalk and New Britain, Connecticut; Portland, Michigan; Birmingham, Alabama; Iselin, New Jersey as well as an additional operations office in Johns Creek, Georgia.
The Company also has multiple operating facilities and offices in Australia, Brazil, Thailand, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Canada, Singapore, United Arab Emirates, and India.
In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
Results of Operations — Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017
Operating Revenue
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
International revenue accounted for 62.4% and 43.3% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the classification of the 2017 and 2018 acquisitions that collectively make up the EbixCash Financial Exchanges, refer to Part I, Item I Business in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Currently they are reported under Exchange channel, but this is subject to change based on the conclusions of our evaluations.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 our total operating revenues increased $35.8 million or 39%, to $128.6 million as compared to $92.8 million during the third quarter of 2017.
 With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2018 and 2017 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3 of the Condensed Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, combined revenues decreased 8.49% for the three months ending September 30, 2018 versus the same periods in 2017.
The 2018 and 2017 pro forma financial information assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2017, whereas the Company's reported financial statements for three months ended September 30, 2018 only includes the revenues from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired or consolidated by Ebix, being April 2017 for Itzcash, June 2017 for beBetter, September 2017 for YouFirst, October 2017 for Wall Street, November 2017 for Paul Merchants, November 2017 for Via, February 2018 for Transcorp, April 2018 for Centrum, April 2018 for Smartclass, July 2018 for Indus, July 2018 for Mercury, July 2018 for Leisure Corp and August 2018 for Miles.
•2018 and 2017 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
•Any existing products sold to new customers obtained through a newly acquired customer base are assigned to the acquired section of our business.
Cost of Services Provided
Costs of services provided, which includes costs associated with maintenance, customer support, call center, consulting, implementation and training services, increased $8.0 million or 23%, to $43.0 million in the third quarter of 2018 as compared to $34.9 million in the third quarter of 2017.
This increase is primarily due to costs associated with operations of recent acquisitions of Via, Ebix Money, and Leisure partially offset by reduced U.S. consulting salary costs and a reduction of our e-governance service contracts executed within the Ebix Vayam Limited JV.
Product Development Expenses
The Company’s product development efforts are focused on the development of new processing technologies, software, systems and related services for use by healthcare professionals, consumers, insurance carriers, brokers and agents, and the development of new data exchanges for use in the domestic and international insurance markets.
Product development expenses
increased $2.5 million or 29% to $11.0 million during the third quarter of 2018 as compared to $8.5 million during the third quarter of 2017.
This increase is primarily due to costs associated with the operations of the recent acquisition of Indus.
Sales and Marketing Expenses
Sales and marketing expenses increased $888 thousand or 23%, to $4.7 million in the third quarter of 2018 as compared to $3.8 million in the third quarter of 2017 primarily due to costs associated with operations of recent acquisitions of SmartClass and Centrum.
General and Administrative Expenses
Reported general and administrative expenses increased $13.3 million or 90% to $28.2 million in the third quarter of 2018 as compared to $14.9 million in the third quarter of 2017 primarily due to costs associated with operations of recent acquisitions of Centrum, SmartClass, Via, Mercury and Indus.
Amortization and Depreciation Expenses
Amortization and depreciation expenses decreased $186 thousand or 7% to $2.5 million in the third quarter of 2018 as compared to $2.7 million in the third quarter of 2017.
Interest Income
Interest income decreased $272 thousand or 73% to $103 thousand in the third quarter of 2018 as compared to $375 thousand in the third quarter of 2017 primarily due to interest earned from our EbixCash Financial exchanges included in operating revenue in 2018.
Interest Expense
Interest expense increased $3.9 million or 110%, to $7.5 million in the third quarter of 2018 as compared to $3.6 million in the third quarter of 2017.
Interest expense increased primarily due to the increase in the average outstanding balance on our commercial banking credit facilities, which increased 86% to $618.1 million during Q3 2018 from $331.7 million during Q3 of 2017, as well as an increase in the underlying interest rate which increased to 4.63% for Q3 2018 versus 4.0% for Q3 2017.
Foreign Currency Exchange Gain (Loss)
Net foreign currency exchange losses for the three months ended September 30, 2018 in the amount of $921 thousand consists of $846 thousand of losses realized upon the settlement of receivables or payables and re-measurement of cash balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument, and $75 thousand of unrealized losses pertaining to the re-measurement of outstanding receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument.
Income Taxes
The Company recorded income tax expense of $1.68 million (5.42%) during the three months ended September 30, 2018 which included discrete items for additions to the reserve for uncertain tax positions.
The income tax expense exclusive of discrete items for the three months ended September 30, 2018 is $1.65 million (5.33%).
Our tax expense and effective tax rate increased year over year, exclusive of discrete charges, due to a new minimum tax on global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) earned by foreign subsidiaries as part of the Tax Act.
The Company expects its full year tax rate before discrete items to be approximately 6.54%.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Act, which implemented a number of changes that took effect on January 1, 2018, including but not limited to, a new minimum tax on GILTI earned by foreign subsidiaries.
The Company estimated the impact of GILTI on the expected annual effective income tax rate and recorded a provisional tax expense.
Any adjustment of the Company’s provisional tax expense will be reflected as a change in estimate in its results in the period in which the change in estimate is made in accordance with ASU 2018-05 Income Taxes (Topic 740), Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118.
ASU 2018-05 allows for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts.
In addition, the Company continues to gather information to compute the amount of the Transition Tax under the Tax Act and will complete the accounting in its December 31, 2018 financial statements.
Results of Operations — Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017
Operating Revenue
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 our total operating revenues increased $102.2 million or 39%, to $361.5 million as compared to $259.3 million during the same period in 2017.
 International revenue accounted for 59.4% and 39.2% of the Company’s total revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2018 and 2017 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3 of the Condensed Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, combined revenues decreased 5.7% for the nine months ending September 30, 2018 versus the same periods in 2017.
The 2018 and 2017 pro forma financial information assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2017, whereas the Company's reported financial statements for nine months ended September 30, 2018 only includes the revenues from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired or consolidated by Ebix, being April 2017 for Itzcash, June 2017 for beBetter, September 2017 for YouFirst, October 2017 for Wall Street, November 2017 for Paul Merchants, November 2017 for Via, February 2018 for Transcorp, April 2018 for Centrum and April 2018 for Smartclass, July 2018 for Indus, July 2018 for Mercury, July 2018 for Leisure Corp and August 2018 for Miles.
•2018 and 2017 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
•Any existing products sold to new customers obtained through a newly acquired customer base are assigned to the acquired section of our business.
Cost of Services Provided
Costs of services provided, which includes costs associated with maintenance, customer support, call center, consulting, implementation and training services, increased $35.1 million or 39%, to $126.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $91.1 million during the same period in 2017.
This increase is primarily due to costs associated with operations of recent acquisitions of ItzCash,Via, Ebix Money, Leisure and Smartclass partially offset by reduced U.S. consulting salary costs and a reduction of our e-governance service contracts executed within the Ebix Vayam Limited JV.
Product Development Expenses
The Company’s product development efforts are focused on the development of new processing technologies, software, systems and related services for use by healthcare professionals, consumers, insurance carriers, brokers and agents, and the development of new data exchanges for use in the domestic and international insurance markets.
Product development expenses increased $2.8 million or 11%, to $28.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $25.3 million during the same period in 2017.
This increase is primarily due to costs associated with operations of recent acquisitions of Indus and Miles.
Sales and Marketing Expenses
Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.2 million or 10%, to $13.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $12.3 million during the same period in 2017 primarily due to promotional activities in India.
General and Administrative Expenses
Reported general and administrative expenses increased $32.3 million or 77% to $74.4 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $42.2 million during the same period in 2017 primarily due to costs associated with operations of recent acquisitions of Via, Ebix Money, Centrum, Mercury, Miles, Indus and Smartclass, a $1.9 million increase in professional fees, and a $1.5 million increase in bad debt expense.
Amortization and Depreciation Expenses
Amortization and depreciation expenses decreased $459 thousand or 6% to $7.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $8.3 million during the same period in 2017.
Interest Income
Interest income decreased $1.3 million or 81% to $309 thousand during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $1.6 million during the same period in 2017 primarily due to interest earned from our EbixCash Financial exchanges included in operating revenue in 2018.
Interest Expense
Interest expense increased $9.0 million or 100%, to $18.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $9.0 million during the same period in 2017.
Interest expense increased primarily due to the increase in the average outstanding balance on our commercial banking credit facilities, which increased 67% to $514.0 million during during nine months ending September 30, 2018 from $307.1 million during nine months ending September 30, 2017, as well as an increase in the underlying average interest rate which increased to an average of 4.4% during nine months ending September 30, 2018 versus 3.6% for the same nine-month period in 2017.
Foreign Currency Exchange Gain (Loss)
Net foreign currency exchange losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 in the amount of $2.9 million consists of $1.6 million of losses realized upon the settlement of receivables or payables and re-measurement of cash balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument, and $1.3 million of unrealized losses pertaining to the re-measurement of outstanding receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument.
Income Taxes
The Company recorded income tax expense of $6.03 million (6.64%) during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 which included discrete items for additions to the reserve for uncertain tax positions.
The income tax expense exclusive of discrete items for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 is $5.94 million (6.54%), respectively.
Our tax expense and effective tax rate increased year over year, exclusive of discrete charges, due to a new minimum tax on global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) earned by foreign subsidiaries as part of the Tax Act.
The Company expects its full year tax rate before discrete items to be approximately 6.54%.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Act, which implemented a number of changes that took effect on January 1, 2018, including but not limited to, a new minimum tax on GILTI earned by foreign subsidiaries.
The Company estimated the impact of GILTI on the expected annual effective income tax rate and recorded a provisional tax expense.
Any adjustment of the Company’s provisional tax expense will be reflected as a change in estimate in its results in the period in which the change in estimate is made in accordance with ASU 2018-05 Income Taxes (Topic 740), Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118.
ASU 2018-05 allows for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts.
In addition, the Company continues to gather information to compute the amount of the Transition Tax under the Tax Act and will complete the accounting in its December 31, 2018 financial statements.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
The Company's ability to generate significant cash flows from ongoing operating activities is one of its fundamental financial strengths.
Our principal sources of liquidity are the cash flows provided by the Company's operating activities, the Company's commercial banking credit facility, and cash and cash equivalents on hand.
Due to the effect of temporary or timing differences resulting from the differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes (including the treatment of net operating loss carry-forwards and minimum alternative tax obligations in the U.S., Great Britain, and India), future cash outlays for income taxes are expected to exceed income tax expense.
We intend to utilize cash flows generated by our operations, in combination with our
commercial bank credit facility, and the possible issuance of additional equity or debt securities, to fund capital expenditures and organic growth initiatives, to make strategic and accretive business acquisitions in the insurance services sector, and to re-purchase shares of our common stock as market conditions warrant.
We believe that anticipated cash flows provided by our operating activities, together with current cash and cash equivalent balances, access to our credit facilities, and access to the capital markets, if required and available, will be sufficient to meet our projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future, although any projections of future cash needs, cash flows, and the condition of the capital markets in general, as to the availability of debt and equity financing, are subject to substantial uncertainty.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $135.0 million and $63.9 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The $7.3 million of restricted fiduciary funds is associated with the EbixHealth JV and pertains to un-remitted insurance premiums and claim funds established for the benefit of various carriers which are held in a fiduciary capacity until disbursed.
 Our current ratio slightly decreased to 1.56 at September 30, 2018 from 1.72 at December 31, 2017 while our working capital position increased to $125.8 million at September 30, 2018 from $106.0 million at the end of 2017.
While our Current ratio decreased, our short-term liquidity has primarily increased due to increased cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivables.
Partially offseting these are increased accounts payable and accrued expenses, deferred revenues, and other current liabilities.
The Company's days sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("DSO") was 108 days at September 30, 2018 up 16 days from 92 days at December 31, 2017.
The increase is primarily due to the timing of credit card transaction settlements in our Via.com division and certain e-governance and other India contracts that have longer payment terms.
We believe that Ebix's ability to generate sustainable and robust cash flows from operations will enable the Company to continue to fund its current liabilities from current assets including available cash balances for the foreseeable future.
Business Combinations
The Company seeks to execute accretive business acquisitions in combination with organic growth initiatives as part of its comprehensive business growth and expansion strategy.
The Company looks to acquire businesses that are complementary to Ebix's existing products and services.
Effective August 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Miles Software ("Miles"), a provider of on-demand software on wealth and asset management to banks, asset managers and wealth management firms, for approximately $18.3 million, included in other current liabilities of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as it was not funded until October 2018, plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $8.3 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective July 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Leisure Corp ("Leisure") for approximately $2.1 million, with the goal of creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective July 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Mercury Travels for approximately $13.2 million, with the goal of creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market.
Mercury’s Forex business will be integrated into EbixCash’s existing CDL Forex exchange business.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective July 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Indus Software Technologies Pvt.
Ltd. ("Indus"), a global provider of enterprise lending software solutions to financial institutions, captive auto finance and telecom companies, for approximately $22.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $5.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective April 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based CentrumDirect Limited ("Centrum"), a leader in India’s foreign exchange and outward remittance markets for approximately $179.5 million.
This acquisition was funded June 2018.
Centrum will be tightly integrated into Ebix’s Financial Exchange EbixCash offering in India and abroad, with key Centrum business executives becoming an integral part of the combined EbixCash senior leadership.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective April 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire a 60% stake in India based Smartclass, a leading e-learning Company engaged in the business of education services, development of education products, and implementation of education solutions for K-12 Schools.
Under the terms of the agreement Ebix paid $8.6 million in cash for its stake in Smartclass.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective February 1, 2018 Ebix acquired the MTSS Business of Transcorp for upfront cash consideration in the amount of $7.25 million, of which $6.55 million was funded with cash and $700 thousand assumed in liabilities.
Ebix is consolidating this recent acquisition into Ebix's Financial Exchange operations which will bring synergies and reduce certain redundancies to the combined operation.
Effective November 1, 2017 Ebix acquired Via, a recognized leader in the travel space in India and an Omni-channel online travel and assisted e-commerce exchange.
Ebix acquired Via for upfront cash consideration in the amount $78.8 million plus possible future contingent payments of up to $2.3 million based on any potential claims made by tax authorities over the subsequent twelve-month period following the effective date of the acquisition and $2.0 million based on the receipt of refunds pertaining to certain advance tax payments and withholding taxes, both of which are included in Other current liabilities in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Effective November 1, 2017 Ebix acquired the MTSS Business of Paul Merchants, the largest international remittance service provider in India, for upfront cash consideration in the amount $37.4 million.
Effective October 1, 2017 Ebix acquired the MTSS Business of Wall Street, an inward international remittance service provider in India, along with the acquisition of its subsidiary company Goldman Securities Limited for upfront cash consideration in the amount $7.4 million.
On August 18, 2017 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire MTSS Business of YouFirst Money Express Private Limited ("YouFirst") for upfront cash consideration in the amount $10.2 million.
The acquisition, effective September 1, 2017, was funded in October following the securing of requisite approvals for the closing.
Effective June 1, 2017 Ebix acquired the assets of beBetter a technology enabled corporate wellness provider that provides end-to-end wellness solutions offering a variety of tools and programs, including interactive platforms, health screening, coaching, tobacco cessation, weight and stress management, health information, and numerous other products and services.
Ebix acquired the assets and intellectual property of beBetter for $1.0 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $2.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
Effective April 1, 2017 Ebix entered into a joint venture with ItzCash, India’s leading payment solutions exchange.
ItzCash is recognized as a leader in the prepaid cards and bill payments space in India.
Under the terms of the agreement, ItzCash was valued at a total enterprise value of approximately $150.0 million.
Accordingly, Ebix acquired an 80% stake in ItzCash for $120.0 million including upfront cash of $76.3 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $44.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent thirty-six month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
$3.8 million of the possible future contingent earn-out payments is being held in escrow accounts for the twelve-month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual gross revenue threshold, which if not achieved will result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $14.8 million as of September 30, 2018.
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by our operating activities was $74.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The primary components of the cash provided by our operating activities during the nine-month period consisted of net income of $84.6 million, net of $1.3 million of unrealized foreign currency exchange gains, $7.9 million of depreciation and amortization, $178 thousand of net income attributable to a non-controlling interest, $2.2 million of non-cash share-based compensation, and $1.6 million of amortization of capitalized software development costs.
Partially offsetting this net cash inflow was $(23.0) million of working capital requirements primarily due to increased outstanding trade accounts receivable and other assets and a decrease in deferred revenues.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 the Company made $9.3 million of tax payments including $2.5 million of minimum alternative tax payments in India, which is a component of net deferred tax assets on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Net cash provided by our operating activities was $50.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
The primary components of the cash provided by our operating activities during the nine-month period consisted of net income of $74.0 million, net of $432 thousand of unrealized foreign currency exchange gains, $8.3 million of depreciation and amortization, $1.0 million of net income attributable to a non-controlling interest, $2.0 million of non-cash share-based compensation, and $1.3 million of amortization of capitalized software development costs.
Partially offsetting this net cash inflow was $(35.9) million of working capital requirements primarily due to increased outstanding trade accounts receivable combined with a reduction in accounts payable and accrued operating and payroll expenses.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2017 the Company
made $8.5 million of tax payments including $4.9 million of minimum alternative tax payments in India, which is a component of net deferred tax assets on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Investing Activities
Net cash used for investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $230.4 million, and consisted of $176.1 million (net of cash acquired) used for the acquisition of Centrum, $7.6 million (net of cash acquired) used for the acquisition of SmartClass, $6.6 million used for the acquisition of Transcorp, $24.3 million (net of cash acquired) used for the acquisition of Indus, $11.4 million (net of cash acquired) used for the acquisition of Mercury, $1.3 million (net of cash acquired) used for the acquisition of Leisure, $3.8 million used for the additional investment in ItzCash, $5.8 million primarily for capital expenditures in India , and $3.6 million for software development costs that were capitalized.
Partially offsetting these outflows was $5.0 million received from Paul Merchants for a 10% equity interest in Ebix’s combined international remittance business in India and, $4.4 million from the net maturities of marketable securities (specifically bank certificates of deposit).
Net cash used for investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $74.0 million, and consisted of $1.0 million used for the acquisition of beBetter, $70.2 million for the acquisition of ItzCash (net of cash acquired), $1.8 million for the acquisition of YouFirst (net of cash acquired), $2.0 million for the expansion of our product development facilities in India, $3.9 million for the continued build out of our global corporate headquarters campus in Johns Creek, Georgia, $2.1 million for software development costs that were capitalized, and partially offset by $7.5 million for the net maturities of marketable securities (specifically bank certificates of deposit).
Financing Activities
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 net cash provided by financing activities was $234.3 million which consisted of $124.3 million provided by the refinancing and borrowing from the amended and expanded syndicated credit facility with Regions Bank, $205.0 million provided by the Company's revolving credit facility with Regions and $609 thousand net provided by the EbixCash overdraft facility in India.
Partially offsetting this cash inflow were $120.8 million used as part of the refinancing and borrowing from the amended and expanded syndicated credit facility with Regions Bank, $7.1 million was used to pay quarterly dividends to our common stockholder, $2.2 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock and $6.3 million was used to make the scheduled payments against the existing term loan with Regions.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2017 net cash provided by financing activities was $17.4 million which consisted of $80.0 million provided by the Company's revolving credit facility with Regions.
Partially offsetting this cash inflow was $45.7 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock, $7.2 million was used to pay quarterly dividends to our common stockholders, and $9.38 million was used to make the scheduled payments against the existing term loan with Regions.
Commercial Bank Financing Facility
On April 9, 2018 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Seventh Amendment (the “Seventh Amendment”) to the to the Regions Secured Credit Facility increasing the permitted indebtedness in the form of unsecured convertible notes from $250 million to $300 million.
On February 21, 2018, Ebix, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Sixth Amendment (the “Sixth Amendment”) to the Regions Secured Credit Facility, dated August 5, 2014, among the Company, Regions Bank as Administrative and Collateral Agent ("Regions") and certain other lenders party thereto (as amended, the "Credit Agreement").
The Sixth Amendment amends the Credit Agreement by increasing its existing credit facility from $450 million to $650 million, to assist in funding its growth.
The increase in the bank line was the result of many members of the existing bank group expanding their share of the credit facility and the addition of BBVA Compass and Bank of the West to the Banking Syndicate, which diversifies Ebix’s lending group under the credit facility to ten participants.
The syndicated bank group now comprises ten leading financial institutions that include Regions Bank, PNC Bank, BMO Harris Bank, BBVA Compass, Fifth Third Bank, KeyBank, Bank of the West, Silicon Valley Bank, Cadence Bank and Trustmark National Bank.
Regions Bank continued to lead the banking group while serving as the administrative and collateral agent.
PNC Bank and BMO Harris Bank were added as co-syndication agents, BBVA Compass and Fifth Third Bank as co-documentation agent, while Regions Capital Markets, PNC Capital Markets and BMO Harris Bank acted as joint lead arrangers and joint book runners.
The new credit facility has the following key components; A five-year term loan for $250 million, with initial repayments starting June 30, 2018 due in the amount $3.13 million for the first eight quarters and increasing thereafter and a five-year revolving credit facility for $400 million.
The new credit facility also allows for up to $150 million of incremental facilities.
The Credit Agreement carries a leverage-based LIBOR related interest rate, which currently stands at approximately 4.63%.
On November 3, 2017 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fifth Amendment (the “Fifth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement to exercise $50 million of its aggregate $100 million accordion option, increasing the total Term Loan Commitment to $175 million.
$20 million of the increase was funded on November 3, 2017 and the remaining $30 million shall be disbursed upon the satisfaction of certain closing requirements set forth in the Fifth Amendment.
Both such disbursements are tied to permitted acquisitions as set forth in the Fifth Amendment.
On November 3, 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fourth Amendment and Waiver (the “Fourth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement.
The Fourth Amendment waives certain technical defaults related to the failure to give required notice with respect to i) the existence of a subsidiary having intellectual property with an aggregate value above a stipulated amount and ii) the additional investment in a joint venture entity resulting in that entity becoming a subsidiary of the Company for the purpose of the Credit Agreement.
In addition to such waiver, the Fourth Amendment also loosened the leverage ratios the Company is required to satisfy in connection with permitted acquisitions and for compliance generally.
On October 19, 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Third Amendment and Waiver (the “Third Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement.
The Third Amendment waives certain technical defaults related to the Company’s making certain restricted payments in excess of those permitted under the Credit Agreement.
In addition to such waiver, the Third Amendment also loosened the limitations on the restricted payment covenant under the Credit Agreement.
On June 17, 2016, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Second Amendment (the “Second Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement, Regions Capital Markets, PNC Capital Markets, LLC, and TD Securities (USA) as joint Lead Arrangers for the syndicate of lenders (the “Regions Secured Credit Facility”).
The Second Amendment increases the total credit facility to $400 million from the prior amount of $240 million, and expands the syndicated bank group to eleven participants by adding seven new participants which include PNC Bank, National Association BMO Harris Bank N.A., Key Bank National Association, HSBC Bank National, Cadence Bank, the Toronto-Dominion Bank (New York Branch), and Trustmark National Bank.
The Credit Agreement now consists of a five-year revolving credit component in the amount of $275 million, and a five-year term loan component in the amount of $125 million, with repayments due in the amount $3.13 million due each quarter, starting September 30, 2016.
The Credit Agreement also contains an accordion feature, which if exercised and approved by all credit parties, would expand the total borrowing capacity under the syndicated credit facility to $500 million.
As of September 30, 2018 the Company's consolidated balance sheet includes $5.1 million of remaining deferred financing costs in connection with this credit facility, which are being amortized as a component of interest expense over the five-year term of the financing agreement.
In regards to these deferred financing costs, $3.1 million pertains to the revolving line of credit component of the Credit Agreement, and $2.0 million pertains to the term loan component of the Credit Agreement of which $449 thousand is netted against the current portion and $1.5 million is netted against the long-term portions of the term loan as reported on the Condensed Consolidated Balance.
At September 30, 2018, the outstanding balance on the revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement was $399.7 million and the facility carried an interest rate of 4.63%.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, $246.0 million of draws were made off of the revolving credit facility.
The revolving line of credit balance is included in the long-term liabilities section of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the average and maximum outstanding balances of the revolving line of credit component of the credit facility were $288.8 million and $399.7 million, respectively.
At September 30, 2018, the outstanding balance on the term loan was $243.8 million of which $12.5 million is due within the next twelve months, with $6.25 million payments having been made during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
This term loan also carried an interest rate of 4.63% .
The current and long-term portions of the term loan are included in the respective current and long-term sections of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amounts of which were $12.5 million and $231.3 million respectively at September 30, 2018.
Contractual Obligations
For a presentation regarding material changes outside the ordinary course of business to the Company's contractual obligations please refer to Notes 3, 4 and 5 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 We do not engage in off balance sheet financing arrangements.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For information about new accounting pronouncements and the potential impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 1 of the condensed notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q and Note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in our 2017 Form 10-K.
Application of Critical Accounting Policies
The preparation of financial statements in conformity GAAP, as promulgated in the United States, requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes.
We believe the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain.
The following accounting policies involve the use of “critical accounting estimates” because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made.
In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different estimates reasonably could have been used in the current period, and changes in the accounting estimates that we used are reasonably likely to occur from period to period both of which may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
For additional information about these policies, see Note 1 of the Condensed Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q.
Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are limited based upon information presently available.
Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions.
Revenue Recognition
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for risk compliance solution services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
Sales and value-added taxes are not included in revenues, but rather are recorded as a liability until the taxes assessed are remitted to the respective taxing authorities.
Under Topic 606, revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
• identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer;
• identification of the performance obligations in the contract;
• determination of the transaction price;
• allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and
• recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.
For contracts that contain multiple deliverables, we analyze the revenue arrangements in accordance with the relevant technical accounting guidance, which provides criteria governing how to determine whether goods or services that are delivered separately in a bundled sales arrangement should be considered as separate performance obligations for the purpose of revenue recognition.
These types of arrangements include obligations pertaining to software licenses, system set-up, and professional services associated with product customization or modification.
Delivery of the various contractual obligations typically occurs over periods of less than eighteen months.
These arrangements generally do not have refund provisions or have very limited refund terms.
Software development arrangements involving significant customization, modification or production are accounted for in accordance with the appropriate technical accounting guidance issued by FASB using the percentage-of-completion method.
The Company recognizes revenue using periodic reported actual hours worked as a percentage of total expected hours required to complete the project arrangement and applies the percentage to the total arrangement fee.
Financial exchange revenue consists largely of transaction-based fees and fees from corporate and retail gift vouchers.
The transaction-based fees are primarily based on a percentage of payment value processed for solutions such as retail and corporate payments, domestic money transfers, and general purpose reloadable cards.
Transaction-based fees are recognized at
the completion of the transaction.
Gift voucher revenue is recognized at full purchase value at time of sale with the corresponding cost of vouchers recorded under direct expenses.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Receivable
Management specifically analyzes accounts receivable and historical bad debts, write-offs, customer concentrations, customer credit-worthiness, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment terms when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts.
Valuation of Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the cost in excess of the fair value of the net assets of acquired businesses.
Indefinite-lived intangible assets represent the fair value of acquired contractual customer relationships for which future cash flows are expected to continue indefinitely.
In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would likely have reduced the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.
Potential impairment indicators include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, and the sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business.
The impairment evaluation process first involves an assessment of certain qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of any of our reporting units was less than its carrying amount.
If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we were to determine that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then we would not perform the two-step quantitative impairment testing described further below.
 The aforementioned two-step quantitative testing process involves comparing the reporting unit carrying values to their respective fair values.
We determine the fair value of our reporting units by applying the discounted cash flow method using the present value of future estimated net cash flows.
If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then no further testing is required.
However, if a reporting unit's fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeded its implied value.
Projections of cash flows are based on our views of growth rates, operating costs, anticipated future economic conditions and the appropriate discount rates relative to risk and estimates of residual values.
We believe that our estimates are consistent with assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value.
The use of different estimates or assumptions for our projected discounted cash flows (e.g., growth rates, future economic conditions, discount rates and estimates of terminal values) when determining the fair value of our reporting units could result in different values and may result in a goodwill impairment charge.
We perform our annual goodwill impairment evaluation and testing as of September 30th of each year.
This evaluation is done during the fourth quarter each year.
During the year ended December 31, 2017 we had no impairment of our reporting unit goodwill balances.
Valuation of Contingent Liabilities related to Earn-Out Obligations from Business Acquisitions
Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes are recorded to reflect the estimated future tax effects of differences between financial statement and tax basis of assets, liabilities, operating losses, and tax credit carry forwards using the tax rates expected to be in effect when
the temporary differences reverse.
Valuation allowances, if any, are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount management considers more likely than not to be realized.
Such valuation allowances are recorded for the portion of the deferred tax assets that are not expected to be realized based on the levels of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income over the periods in which the temporary differences will be deductible.
The Company also applies FASB accounting guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes positions.
This guidance clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements.
Foreign Currency Matters
The functional currency for the Company's foreign subsidiaries in India, Dubai, and Singapore is the U.S. dollar because the intellectual property research and development activities provided by its Dubai and Singapore subsidiary, and the product development and information technology enabled services activities for the insurance industry provided by its India subsidiary, both in support of Ebix's operating divisions across the world, are transacted in U.S. dollars.
The functional currency of the Company's other foreign subsidiaries is the local currency of the country in which the subsidiary operates.
The assets and liabilities of these foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet dates.
Income and expense accounts are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the period.
Gains and losses resulting from translation adjustments are included as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses that are derived from transactions denominated in a currency other than the subsidiary's functional currency are included in the determination of net income.
Item 2: REPURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Effective February 6, 2017 the Company's Board of Directors unanimously approved an additional authorized share repurchase plan of $150.0 million.
The Board directed that the repurchases be funded with available cash balances and cash generated by the Company's operating activities.
Under certain circumstances the aggregate amount of repurchases of the Company's equity shares may be limited by the terms and underlying financial covenants regarding the Company's commercial bank financing facility.
There were no share repurchases during the three months ended September 30, 2018, and the maximum number (or approximate dollar value) of shares that may yet be purchased under the current program is $131.6 million.
