Item 3: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to our foreign-based operations where certain transactions are denominated in other than the foreign entity's functional currency and are subject to market risk with respect to fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies.
A majority of the Company’s operations are based in the U.S and India, furthermore the functional currencies in our main India office, Dubai, and Singapore offices is the U.S. dollar, and accordingly, a substantial portion of our business transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars.
However, the Company has operations in Australia, India (specifically EbixCash), New Zealand, United Kingdom, Canada, Brazil, Philippines, Indonesia, and United Arab Emirates where we conduct transactions in the local currencies of each of these locations.
There can be no assurance that fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results, revenues or financial condition.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the net change in the cumulative foreign currency translation account, which is a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity, were unrealized losses of $10.9 million and $61.8 million, respectively.
The Company considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in our respective foreign currency exchange rates of 20% could be experienced in the near term.
Such an adverse change in currency exchange rates would have resulted in reduction to pre-tax income of approximately $12.4 million and $11.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The Company's exposure to interest rate risk relates to its interest expense on outstanding debt obligations and to its interest income on existing cash balances.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company had $721.0 million of outstanding debt obligations, which consisted of a $279.9 million term loan, a $438.0 million balance on our commercial banking revolving line of credit, and a $1.8 million note due to IHC by the EbixHealth JV, and $1.3 million of previously existing debt pertaining to Weizmann.
The Company's revolving line of credit carries a leverage-based LIBOR related interest rate, and stood at 4.81% at September 30, 2019.
The Company is exposed to market risk in relation to this line of credit in regards to the potential increase in interest expense arising from adverse changes in interest rates.
This interest rate risk is estimated as the potential decrease in earnings resulting from a hypothetical 30 basis point increase in the LIBOR rate.
Such an adverse change in the LIBOR rate would have resulted in a reduction to pre-tax income of approximately $4.5 million and $2.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The Company's average cash balances and short term investments during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $129.1 million and its existing cash balances as of September 30, 2019 were $124.2 million.
The Company is exposed to market risk in relation to these cash balances in regards to the potential loss of interest income arising from adverse changes in interest rates.
This interest rate risk is estimated as the potential decrease in earnings resulting from a hypothetical 20 basis point decrease in interest rates earned on deposited funds.
Such an adverse change in these interest rates would have resulted in a reduction to pre-tax income of approximately $227 thousand and $342 thousand for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The Company has significant outstanding trade accounts receivable with certain Indian government sponsored companies in connection with one of its joint ventures.
See Note 12 for additional information.
There were no other material changes to our market risk exposure during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
For additional information regarding our exposure to certain market risks, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in Part II, Item 7A of our 2018 Form 10-K.
Item 3: DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES
None.
