Item 4: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that we file and submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.
Disclosure controls also are designed to reasonably assure that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Disclosure controls include components of internal control over financial reporting, which consists of control processes designated to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.
We monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis our disclosure controls and procedures in order to improve their overall effectiveness.
In the course of these evaluations, we modify and refine our internal processes and controls as conditions warrant.
Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our “disclosure controls and procedures” (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act) as of March 31, 2018.
Based on this evaluation the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that as a result of not having completed the remediation of the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting identified and described in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of March 31, 2018.
Remediation Plans



•The strengthening of controls for income taxes in 2018 with the use of additional resources and expanded use of independent third party resources and outside legal tax counsel

•Reviewing and revising internal procedures surrounding valuation accounting, including the use of independent third party resources, internal review and documentation processes.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The above described remediation actions are changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) or Rule 15d-15(f)) made in the first quarter of 2018 or in the process of being made that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Item 4: MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 

Not applicable.
Item 5: OTHER INFORMATION

On February 21, 2018, Ebix, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Sixth Amendment (the “Sixth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement.
The Sixth Amendment amends the Regions Credit Facility by increasing its existing credit facility from $450 million to$650 million, to assist in funding its growth.
The increase in the bank line was the result of many members of the existing bank group expanding their share of the credit facility and the addition of BBVA Compass and Bank Of The West to the Banking Syndicate, which further diversifies Ebix’s lending group under the credit facility to ten participants.The syndicated bank group now comprises ten leading financial institutions that include Regions Bank, PNC Bank, BMO Harris Bank, BBVA Compass, Fifth Third Bank, KeyBank, Bank Of The West, Silicon Valley Bank, Cadence Bank and Trustmark National Bank.
Regions Bank continued to lead the banking group while serving as the administrative and collateral agent.
PNC Bank and BMO Harris Bank were added as co syndication agents, BBVA Compass and Fifth Third Bank as co documentation agent, while Regions Capital Markets, PNC Capital Markets and BMO Harris Bank acted as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners.
The new credit facility has the following key components; A five-year term loan for $250 million, with initial repayments starting June 30, 2018 due in the amount $3.13 million for the first eight quarters and increasing thereafter and a five-year revolving credit facility for $400 

million.
The new credit facility, also, allows for up to $150 million of incremental facilities.
The Regions Secured Credit Facility carries a leverage-based LIBOR related interest rate, which currently stands at approximately 3.88%.
On November 3, 2017 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fifth Amendment (the “Fifth Amendment”) to the Regions Secured Credit Facility, dated August 5, 2014, among the Company, Regions Bank as Administrative and Collateral Agent ("Regions") and certain other lenders party thereto (as amended, the "Credit Agreement") to exercise $50 million of its aggregate $100 million accordion option, increasing the total Term Loan Commitment to$175 million.
$20 million of the increase was funded on November 3, 2017 and the remaining $30 million shall be disbursed upon the satisfaction of certain closing requirements set forth in the Fifth Amendment.
Both such disbursements are tied to permitted acquisitions as set forth in the Fifth Amendment.
On November 3, 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fourth Amendment and Waiver (the “Fourth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement.
The Fourth Amendment waives certain technical defaults related to the failure to give required notice with respect to i) the existence of a subsidiary having intellectual property with an aggregate value above a stipulated amount and ii) the additional investment in a joint venture entity resulting in that entity becoming a subsidiary of the Company for the purpose of the Credit Agreement.
In addition to such waiver, the Fourth Amendment also loosened the leverage ratios the Company is required to satisfy in connection with permitted acquisitions and for compliance generally.
Item 6: EXHIBITS

The exhibits filed herewith or incorporated by reference herein are listed in the Exhibit Index attached hereto.
EXHIBITS INDEX



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
