Item 1: CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
As of December 31, 2018 there were 200,000 shares totaling $8.8 million of share repurchases that were not settled until January 2019.
 During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 there were 662 shares, totaling $36 thousand, used to satisfy exercise costs and the recipients' income tax obligations related to stock options exercised and restricted stock vesting.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
Description of Business— Ebix, Inc., and its subsidiaries, (“Ebix” or the “Company”) is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also providing software-as-a-service ("SaaS") enterprise solutions in the area of customer relationship management ("CRM"), front-end and back-end systems, and outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
The Company's products feature fully customizable and scalable on-demand software designed to streamline the way insurance professionals manage distribution, marketing, sales, customer service, and accounting activities.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines physical distribution outlets in many Association of Southwest Asian Nations ("ASEAN") countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio of services encompasses dominance in the areas of domestic and international money remittance, foreign exchange ("Forex"), travel, pre-paid gift cards, utility payments, lending, and wealth management in India and other Asian markets.
The Company has its headquarters in Johns Creek, Georgia and also conducts operating activities in Australia, Canada, India, New Zealand, Singapore, United Kingdom, Brazil, Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand and United Arab Emirates.
International revenue accounted for 68.7% and 59.4% of the Company’s total revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation—The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and these notes have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") with the effect of inter-company balances and transactions eliminated.
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and SEC rules have been condensed or omitted as permitted by and pursuant to those rules and regulations, although the Company believes that the disclosures made are adequate to make the information not misleading.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring items) necessary to fairly present the consolidated financial position of the Company and its consolidated results of operations and cash flows.
Operating results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for future quarters or the full year of 2019.
The condensed consolidated December 31, 2018 balance sheet included in this interim period filing has been derived from the audited financial statements at that date, but does not necessarily include all of the information and related notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
These condensed interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Reclassification - Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to be consistent with current year presentation within our financial statements.
Restricted Cash - The carrying value of our restricted cash in current assets was $18.2 million and $8.3 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The September 30, 2019 balance consists of upfront cash consideration and possible future contingent earn-out payments held in an escrow account in connection with a 2016 business acquisition.
If earn-out targets are not achieved, amounts held in escrow will be returned to the Company.
The Company also holds fixed deposits pledged with banks for issuance of bank guarantees and letters of credit related to its India operations.
Advertising—Advertising costs amounted to $2.0 million and $2.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $7.6 million and $6.2 million in the nine months ended 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The costs are included in sales and marketing expenses in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
•Level 1 Inputs - Unadjusted quoted prices available in active markets for identical investments to the reporting entity at the measurement date.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
•Level 3 Inputs - Unobservable inputs, which are used to the extent that observable inputs are not available, and used in situations where there is little or no market activity for the asset or liability and wherein the reporting entity makes estimates and assumptions related to the pricing of the asset or liability including assumptions regarding risk.
 A financial instrument's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.
•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
The increases or decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration can result from changes in anticipated revenue levels and changes in assumed discount periods and rates.
As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3.
Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair Value Measurements
Sensitivity to Changes in Significant Unobservable Inputs
As presented in the table above, the significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of contingent consideration related to business acquisitions are projected revenue forecasts as developed by the relevant members of Company's management team and the probability of achievement of those revenue forecasts.
The Company applies these inputs in its calculation
and determination of the fair value of contingent earn-out liabilities for purchased businesses.
During 2018 and 2019, certain of the Company's contingent earn-out liabilities were adjusted because of changes to anticipated future revenues from these acquired businesses, or as a result of finalizing purchase price allocations that were previously provisional.
Revenue Recognition—The Company derives its revenues primarily from software subscription and transaction fees, software license fees, financial transaction fees, risk compliance solution services fees, and professional service fees including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
•identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer;
•identification of the performance obligations in the contract;
•determination of the transaction price;
•allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and
•recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.
EbixCash Exchanges ("EbixCash")
EbixCash revenues are primarily derived from consideration paid by customers to transfer or exchange money.
The significant majority of EbixCash revenue is for a single performance obligation and is recognized at a point in time.
These revenues vary by transaction based upon channel, send and receive locations, the principal amount sent, whether the money transfer involves different send and receive currencies, and speed of service, as applicable.
EbixCash also offers several other services, primarily including payment services and ticketing and travel services for which revenue is impacted by varying factors.
EbixCash acts as the principal in transactions and reports revenue on a gross basis, as EbixCash controls the service at all times prior to transfer to the customer, is primarily responsible for fulfilling the customer contracts, has the risk of loss, and has the ability to establish transaction prices.
EbixCash Money Transfer
Foreign Exchange and Outward Remittance Services
For EbixCash’s foreign exchange and payment services, customers agree to terms and conditions for all transactions, either at the time of initiating a transaction or signing a contract with EbixCash to provide payment services on the customer’s behalf.
In the majority of EbixCash’s foreign exchange and payment services, EbixCash makes payments to the recipient to satisfy its performance obligation to the customer, and therefore, EbixCash recognizes revenue on foreign exchange and payment services when this performance obligation has been fulfilled.
Consumer Payment Services
considerations for each of EbixCash’s bill payment services.
For all transactions, EbixCash’s customers agree to EbixCash’s terms and conditions, either at the time of initiating a transaction (where the consumer is determined to be the customer for revenue recognition purposes) or upon signing a contract with EbixCash to provide services on the biller’s behalf (where the biller is determined to be the customer for revenue recognition purposes).
As with consumer money transfers, customers engage EbixCash to perform one integrated service—collect money from the consumer and process the bill payment transaction, thereby providing the billers real-time or near real-time information regarding their customers’ payments and simplifying the billers’ collection efforts.
EbixCash’s revenues from bill payment services are generated from contracts to process transactions at any time during the duration of the contract.
The transaction price on bill payment services is contractual and determinable.
Certain biller agreements may include per-transaction or fixed periodic rebates, which EbixCash records as a reduction to revenue.
EbixCash Travel Exchanges
EbixCash Travel revenues are primarily derived from commissions and transaction fees received from various travel providers and international exchanges involved in the sale of travel to the consumer.
EbixCash Travel revenue is for a single performance obligation and is recognized at a point in time.
Travel revenues include reservation commissions, segment fees from global travel exchange providers, and transaction net revenues (i.e., the amount charged to travelers less the amount owed to travel service providers) in connection with our reservation services; ancillary fees, including travel insurance-related revenues and certain reservation booking fees; and credit card processing rebates and customer processing fees.
EbixCash Travel services include the sale of hotel rooms, airline tickets, bus tickets and train tickets.
EbixCash’s Travel revenue is also derived from ticket sales, wherein the commissions payable to EbixCash Travel, along with any transaction fees paid by travel providers and travel exchanges, is recognized as revenue after completion of the service.
The transaction price on such services is agreed upon at the time of the purchase.
EbixCash Travel revenue for the corporate MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences, and Exhibitions) packages is recognized at full purchase value at the completion of the obligation with the corresponding costs recorded under direct expenses.
For MICE revenues, EbixCash Travel acts as the principal in transactions, and accordingly reports revenue on a gross basis.
EbixCash Travel controls the service at all times prior to transfer to the customer, is responsible for fulfilling the customer contracts, has the risk of loss, and has the ability to establish transaction prices.
Gift Cards
EbixCash resells gift cards to consumers that can be later redeemed at various merchants.
Gift cards are recorded as inventory until sold to the consumer.
Gift card revenue is recognized at full purchase value at the time of sale with the corresponding cost of vouchers recorded under direct expenses.
Insurance Exchanges
Contracts generally do not contain a right of return or refund provisions.
Our contracts often do contain overage fees, contingent fees, or service level penalties which are accounted for as variable consideration.
Revenue accounted for as variable consideration is immaterial and is recognized using the “right to invoice” practical expedient when the invoiced amount equals the value provided to the customer.
Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS")
The Company allocates the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation using the relative stand-alone selling price.
Determining the stand-alone selling price may require significant judgement.
The stand-alone selling price is the price at which an entity has sold or would sell a promised good or service separately to a customer.
The Company determines the stand-alone selling price based on observable price of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances, when such observable prices are available.
When standalone selling price is not directly observable, the Company estimates the stand-alone selling price using the market assessment approach by considering historical pricing and other market factors.
Subscription Services
Subscription services revenues are associated with performance obligations that are satisfied over specific time periods and primarily consist of fees that provide customers access to our SaaS platforms.
Revenue is generally recognized ratably over the contract term.
Our subscription contracts are generally for an initial three-year period with subsequent one-year automatic renewals.
Transaction Fees
Transaction revenue is comprised of fees applied to the volume of transactions that are processed through our SaaS platforms.
These are typically based on a per-transaction rate and are invoiced for the same period in which the transactions were processed and as the performance obligation is satisfied.
The amount invoiced generally equals the value provided to the customer, and revenue is typically recognized when invoiced using the as-invoiced practical expedient.
Professional Services
Professional service revenue primarily consists of fees for setup, customization, training, or consulting.
Professional service fees are generally on a time and materials basis or a fixed fee.
Revenues for time and materials are recognized as such services are rendered while fixed fee revenues are recognized based on the input method driven by the expected hours to complete the project measured against the actual hours completed to date.
Professional services, particularly related to SaaS platforms, may have significant dependencies on the related licensed software and may not be considered a distinct performance obligation.
Risk Compliance Services ("RCS")
RCS revenues consist of two revenue streams—Certificates of Insurance (COI) and Consulting Services.
COI revenues are derived from consideration paid by customers for the creation and tracking of certificates of insurance.
These are transactional-based revenues.
Consulting Services revenues are driven by distinct consulting service engagements rendered to customers for which revenues are recognized using the output method on a time and material basis as the services are performed.
COI Creation and Tracking
The Company provides services to issue and track certificates of insurance in the United States and Australian markets.
Revenue is derived from transaction fees for each certificate issued or tracked.
The Company recognizes revenue at the issuance of each certificate or over the period the certificate is being tracked.
Consulting Services
The Company provides consulting services to clients around the world for project management and development.
Consulting services fees are generally on a time and materials basis or a fixed fee.
Revenues for time and materials are recognized as the services are rendered while fixed fee revenues are recognized based on the input method driven by the expected hours to complete the project measured against the actual hours completed to date.
 Disaggregation of Revenue
The revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 shown below have been adjusted to reflect this change.
Costs to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract
The Company’s capitalized costs are primarily derived from the fulfillment of SaaS related setup and customizations from which the customer receives benefit through continued access to and use of the SaaS product platforms.
In accordance with the guidance in ASC 340-40-25-5, we capitalize the costs directly related to the setup and development of these customizations which satisfy the Company’s performance obligation with respect to access to the Company’s underlying product platforms.
The capitalized costs primarily consist of the salaries of the developers directly involved in fulfilling the project and are solely based on the time spent on that project.
The Company amortizes the capitalized costs ratably over the expected useful life of the related customizations, matching our treatment for the related revenue, and the capitalized costs are recoverable from profit margin included in the contract.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had $749 thousand and $862 thousand, respectively, of contract costs in “Other current assets” and $1.2 million and $1.4 million, respectively, in “Other Assets” on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Contract Liabilities
The Company records contract liabilities when it receives payments or invoices in advance of the performance of services.
A significant portion of this balance relates to contracts where the customer has paid in advance for the use of our SaaS platforms over a specified period of time.
This portion is recognized as the related performance obligation is fulfilled (generally less than one year).
Part of our performance obligation for these contracts consists of the requirement to provide our customers with continued access to, and use of, our SaaS platforms and associated customizations.
Without continued access to the SaaS platform, the customizations have no separate benefit to the customer.
Our customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits as we provide access over time.
The remaining portion of the contract liabilities balance consists primarily of customer-specific customizations that are not distinct from related performance obligations that transfer over time.
This portion is recognized over the expected useful life of the customizations.
Accounts Receivable and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts—Reported accounts receivable include $165.4 million of trade receivables stated at invoice billed amounts and $35.3 million of contract assets (net of the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts receivable in the amount of $21.0 million).
The Company records a contract asset when revenue recognized on a contract exceeds the billings.
The contract asset is transferred to receivables when the entitlement to payment becomes unconditional.
These contract assets are primarily related to project based revenue where we recognize revenue using the input method calculated using expected hours to complete the project measured against the actual hours completed to date.
Approximately $4.4 million and $10.2 million, respectively, of contract liabilities (deferred revenue) is uncollected and included in billed accounts receivable at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
The Company recognized bad debt expense in the amount of $11.9 million and $10.6 million for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and $524 thousand and $2.6 million for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Management specifically analyzes accounts receivable and historical bad debts, write-offs, customer concentrations, customer credit-worthiness, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment terms when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts.
In the third quarter of 2019, the Company recorded a $12.1 million bad debt reserve as a precautionary measure, against the receivables due from a public sector entity, BSNL, in India.
Payment of these receivables has been delayed due to liquidity issues at BSNL.
The Government of India has recently approved funding to BSNL and the Company expects the accounts to be collectible once the Government funding reaches BSNL.
Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets—Goodwill represents the cost in excess of the fair value of the identifiable net assets from the businesses that we acquire.
In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance, goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurred or circumstances change that would indicate that fair value of a reporting unit decreased below its carrying value.
Potential impairment indicators include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, customer retention and the sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business.
The Company applies the technical accounting guidance concerning goodwill impairment evaluation whereby the Company first assesses certain qualitative factors to determine whether
the existence of events or circumstances would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of any of our reporting units was less than its carrying amount.
If after assessing the totality of events and circumstances, we were to determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then we would perform the quantitative impairment testing described further below.
The aforementioned quantitative testing process involves comparing the reporting unit carrying values to their respective fair values; we determine fair value of our reporting units by applying the discounted cash flow method using the present value of future estimated net cash flows.
If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then no further testing is required.
However, if a reporting unit’s fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeded its implied value.
We perform our annual goodwill impairment evaluation and testing as of October 1st of each year or when events or circumstances dictate more frequently.
During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 we had no impairment of our reporting unit goodwill balances.
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and the year ended December 31, 2018 are reflected in the following table.
Capitalized Software Development Costs—In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance regarding the development of software to be sold, leased, or marketed, the Company expenses such costs as they are incurred until technological feasibility has been established, at and after which time those costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers.
Costs incurred to enhance our software products, after general market release of the services using the products, are expensed in the period they are incurred.
See Note 9 "Capitalized Software Development Costs" for further details.
Amortization expense recognized in connection with acquired intangible assets was $2.7 million and $7.9 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and $1.6 million and $5.2 million for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Foreign Currency Translation—The functional currency is the U.S. Dollar for the Company's foreign subsidiaries in Dubai and Singapore, and its product development and information technology enabled services activities for the insurance industry provided by its India subsidiary, because both the intellectual property research and development activities provided by its Dubai and Singapore subsidiaries, and the product development and information technology enabled services activities for the insurance industry provided by its India subsidiary are in support of the Company's operating divisions across the world, which are primarily transacted in U.S.
Dollars.
The functional currency of the Company's other foreign subsidiaries is the local currency of the country in which the subsidiary operates.
The assets and liabilities of these foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet dates.
Income and expense accounts are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the period.
Gains and losses resulting from translation adjustments are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets, and are included in the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses that are derived from transactions denominated in a currency other than the subsidiary's functional currency are included in the determination of net income.
Income Taxes—Deferred income taxes are recorded to reflect the estimated future tax effects of differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets, liabilities, operating losses, and tax credit carry forwards using the tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse.
Valuation allowances, if any, are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount management considers more likely than not to be realized.
Such valuation allowances are recorded for the portion of the deferred tax assets that are not expected to be realized based on the levels of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income over the periods in which the temporary differences will be deductible.
The Company applies the relevant FASB accounting guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes positions.
This guidance clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements.
In this regard we recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-18, Collaborative Arrangements (Topic 808) Clarifying the Interaction between Topic 808 and Topic 606 (Revenues from Customers).
ASU 2018-18 clarifies the interaction between the guidance for certain collaborative arrangements and the Revenue Recognition financial accounting and reporting standard.
A collaborative arrangement is a contractual arrangement under which two or more parties actively participate in a joint operating activity and are exposed to significant risks and rewards that depend on the activity’s commercial success.
The ASU provides guidance on how to assess whether certain transactions between collaborative arrangement participants should be accounted for within the revenue recognition standard.
The ASU also provides comparability in the presentation of revenue for certain transactions between collaborative arrangement participants.
It accomplishes this by allowing organizations to only present units of account in collaborative arrangements that are within the scope of the revenue recognition standard together with revenue accounted for under the revenue recognition standard.
The parts of the collaborative arrangement that are not in the scope of the revenue recognition standard should be presented separately from revenue accounted for under the revenue recognition standard.
The amendments in ASU No.
2018-18 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company has yet to assess the joint ventures the Company is involved with and the impact that the adoption of this ASU will have on its consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
•Remove the disclosure to report the amount of and reasons for transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy;
•Remove the disclosure of the policy for timing of transfers between levels;
•Add a disclosure for the changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in other comprehensive income for recurring Level 3 fair value; and
•Add a disclosure for the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurement.
The Company has yet to assess the impact that the adoption of this ASU will have on Ebix's consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Non-employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.
ASU 2018-07 is intended to reduce cost and complexity and to improve financial reporting for share-based payments to non-employees.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year.
The adoption of ASU 2018-07 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment.
To simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill, the FASB eliminated Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
In computing the implied fair value of goodwill under Step 2, an entity had to perform procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing date of its assets and liabilities (including unrecognized assets and liabilities).
Instead, under the amendments in this ASU, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
A public business entity filer should adopt the amendments in this ASU for its annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
The early adoption of ASU 2017-04 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In January 2017 the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805) Clarifying the Definition of a Business which amended the existing FASB ASC.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses.
The definition of a business affects many areas of accounting, including acquisitions, disposals, goodwill, and consolidation.
ASU 2017-01 is effective for fiscal 2019
with early adoption permitted.
The adoption of ASU 2018-01 did not have a material impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 The Company seeks to execute accretive business acquisitions (which primarily targets businesses that are complementary to Ebix's existing products and services), in combination with organic growth initiatives, as part of its comprehensive business growth and expansion strategy.
Effective August 23, 2019, Ebix acquired Canada based Wall Street Finance (Canada) Ltd. ("Wallstreet Canada") foreign exchange and outward remittance markets for approximately $2.1 million of upfront consideration plus net working capital.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective January 1, 2019, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Essel Forex Limited ("Essel Forex"), for approximately $8.7 million, of which $721 thousand remains unpaid, plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $721 thousand based on earned revenues.
Ebix funded the entire transaction in cash, using its internal cash reserves.
Essel Forex has been one of the five largest foreign exchange providers in India with a wide spectrum of related products including sales of all major currencies, travelers’ checks, demand drafts, remittances, money transfers and prepaid cards primarily for corporate clients.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
The Company has preliminarily determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $710 thousand as of September 30, 2019.
Effective January 1, 2019, Ebix acquired an 80% controlling stake in India based Zillious Solutions Private Limited for $10.1 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $2.2 million based on earned revenues.
Zillious is an on-demand SaaS travel technology solution, with market leadership in the corporate travel segment in India.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
The Company has preliminary determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $2.1 million as of September 30, 2019.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired 74.84% controlling stake in India based Weizmann for $63.1 million and also made a time bound public offer to Weizmann's public shareholders acquire the remaining 25.16% shares for approximately $21.1 million.
The $77.35 million reported on the cash flows used for investing activities includes a decrease in previously reported cash acquired of $1.5 million and $12.7 million for an additional 15.1% of the publicly-held Weizmann Forex shares in the second quarter of 2019.
As of September 30, 2019, Ebix has approximately 89.94% of the controlling stake in India based Weizmann.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Pearl, a provider of a comprehensive range of B2B and B2C travel services, under the brand name Sastiticket for $3.4 million.
Pearl has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations, realizing operational synergies and eliminating certain redundancies.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Lawson, a B2B provider of travel services and international ticketing, for $2.7 million.
Lawson has been integrated with Ebix Travels realizing operational synergies and a wider country wide footprint.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective October 1, 2018, Ebix acquired a 70% stake in India based AHA Taxis, a platform for on-demand inter-city cabs in India for $382 thousand.
Consideration of $71 thousand was paid during the fourth quarter of 2018, $214 thousand during the first quarter of 2019, and $72 thousand remains to be paid.
AHA focuses its attention on corporate and consumer inter-city travel primarily with a network of thousands of registered AHA Taxis.
Effective October 1, 2018, Ebix acquired a 67% stake in India based Routier, a marketplace for trucking logistics for $413 thousand.
Effective October 1, 2018, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Business Travels for $1.1 million and it has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations to expand the Company's wholesale travel business.
Consideration of $414 thousand was paid during the fourth quarter of 2018 and $689 thousand during the first quarter of 2019.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective August 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Miles Software ("Miles"), a provider of on-demand software for wealth and asset management to banks, asset managers and wealth management firms, for approximately $18.3 million, plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $8.3 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $5.5 million as of September 30, 2019.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Leisure Corp ("Leisure") for approximately $2.1 million, creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Mercury Travels for approximately $13.2 million.
Mercury’s Forex business was integrated into EbixCash’s existing CDL Forex exchange business.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Indus Software Technologies Pvt.
Ltd. ("Indus") for approximately $22.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $5.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
Indus is a global provider of enterprise lending software solutions to financial institutions, captive auto finance and telecom companies.
The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $1.67 million as of September 30, 2019.
Effective April 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based CentrumDirect Limited ("Centrum"), a leader in India’s foreign exchange and outward remittance markets, for approximately $179.5 million.
Centrum has been integrated into the Company's EbixCash offering in India and abroad, with key Centrum business executives becoming an integral part of the combined EbixCash senior leadership team.
Effective April 1, 2018, Ebix acquired a 60% stake in India based Smartclass Educational Services Private Limited ("Smartclass"), a leading e-learning Company engaged in the business of education services, development of education products, and implementation of education solutions for K-12 Schools.
Under the terms of the agreement Ebix paid $8.6 million in cash for its stake in Smartclass.
 Consideration paid by the Company for the businesses it purchases is allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired based upon their estimated fair values as of the date of the acquisition.
The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill.
Recognized goodwill pertains to the value of the expected synergies to be derived from combining the operations of the businesses we acquire including the value of the acquired workforce.
In the table below the aggregated unaudited pro forma financial information pertains to all of the Company's acquisitions that have an impact on the financial results for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, which includes the acquisitions of Transcorp (acquired February 2018), Centrum (acquired April 2018), Smartclass (acquired April 2018), Indus (acquired July 2018), Mercury (acquired July 2018), Leisure (acquired July 2018), Miles (acquired August 2018), Routier (acquired October 2018), Business Travels (acquired October 2018), Aha Taxis (acquired October 2018), Pearl (acquired December 2018), Weizmann (acquired December 2018), Zillious (acquired January 2019), Essel (acquired January 2019), and Wallstreet Canada (acquired August 2019) is provided for informational purposes only and is not a projection of the Company's expected results of operations for any future period.
No effect has been given in this pro forma information for future synergistic benefits that may still be realized as a result of combining these companies or costs that may yet be incurred in integrating their operations.
The 2019 and 2018 pro forma financial information below assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2018, whereas the Company's reported financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 only include the operating results from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired by Ebix.
•2019 and 2018 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before the acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after the acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
•Any existing products sold to new customers obtained through a newly acquired customer base are assigned to the acquired section of our business.
On September 27, 2019 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Ninth Amendment (the “Ninth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement which amended the definition of “Consolidated EBITDA" to add back the derivative legal settlement, “Indebtedness” to disqualify equity interests to be issued regarding the Yatra Online acquisition, and modified the maximum consolidated debt leverage ratios allowed.
On November 27, 2018, Ebix entered into the Eighth Amendment to the Regions Secured Credit Facility, dated August 5, 2014, among the Company, Regions Bank (“Regions”) and certain other lenders party thereto (as amended, the "Credit Agreement") to exercise $101.25 million of its aggregate $150 million accordion option, increasing the then total Term Loan Commitment to $301.25 million from $250 million, with initial repayments starting December 31, 2018 due in the amount of $3.77 million for the first six quarters and increasing thereafter.
The revolving credit facility increased from $400 million to $450 million.
The Credit Agreement carries a leverage-based LIBOR related interest rate, which currently stands at approximately 4.8%.
The expanded credit facility will continue to be used to fund the Company's future growth and share repurchase initiatives
On April 9, 2018, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Seventh Amendment (the “Seventh Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement increasing the permitted indebtedness in the form of unsecured convertible notes from $250 million to $300 million.
At September 30, 2019 the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets include $5.7 million of remaining deferred financing costs in connection with this Credit Agreement, which are being amortized as a component of interest expense over the five-year term of the financing agreement.
In regards to these deferred financing costs, $3.4 million pertains to the revolving line of credit component of the Credit Agreement, and $2.3 million pertains to the term loan component of the Credit Agreement, of which $575 thousand is netted against the current portion and $1.7 million is netted against the long-term portions of the term loan as reported on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
At December 31, 2018, the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets included $5.9 million of remaining deferred financing costs with $3.5 million pertaining to the revolving line of credit component of the Credit Agreement, and $2.4 million pertaining to the term loan component of the Credit Agreement, of which $575 thousand was netted against the current portion and $1.8 million was netted against the long-term portions of the term loan as reported on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
At September 30, 2019, the outstanding balance on the revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement was $438.0 million and the facility carried an interest rate of 4.81%.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company drew$13.5 million from its revolving credit facility.
The revolving line of credit balance is included in the long-term liabilities section of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the average and maximum outstanding balances of the revolving line of credit component of the credit facility were $436.9 million and $438.0 million, respectively.
At December 31, 2018, the outstanding balance on the revolving line of credit with Regions was $424.5 million and the facility carried an interest rate of 4.88%.
This balance was included in the long-term liabilities section of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During 2018, the average and maximum outstanding balances on the revolving line of credit were $318.9 million and $424.5 million, respectively.
At September 30, 2019, the outstanding balance on the term loan was $279.9 million of which $18.8 million is due within the next twelve months, with $11.3 million payments having been made during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
This term loan also carried an interest rate of 4.81% .
The current and long-term portions of the term loan are included in the respective current and long-term sections of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amounts of which were $18.8 million and $261.1 million, respectively at September 30, 2019.
At December 31, 2018, the outstanding balance on the term loan was $291.2 million of which $15.1 million is due within the next twelve months.
This term loan also carried an interest rate of 4.88%.
The current and long-term portions of the term loan were included in the respective current and long-term sections of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amounts of which were $15.1 million and $276.2 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018.
The Company is involved in various other claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate likely disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
Lease Commitments—See Note 11.
Self-Insurance—For some of the Company’s U.S. employees, the Company is self-insured for its health insurance program and has a stop loss policy that limits the individual liability to $120 thousand per person and the aggregate liability to 125% of the expected claims based upon the number of participants and historical claims.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, the amount accrued on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet for the self-insured component of the Company’s employee health insurance was $304 thousand and $232 thousand.
The maximum potential estimated cumulative liability for the annual contract period, which ended in September 2019, was $3.3 million.
The Company recorded net income tax benefit of $217 thousand (1.46%) and $297 thousand (.44%) during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, which included discrete items.
The primary discrete item is the tax benefit of $1.16 million and $5.32 million recorded during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, related to deferred tax true-up pertaining to tax carrying value of assets versus carrying value as per the accounting books.
The income tax expense exclusive of discrete items was $947 thousand (6.38%) and $5.03 million (7.38%) during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively.
Our tax expense and effective tax rate has decreased year-over-year due to the recording of a one-time Transition tax liability last year resulting from the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”).
The Company expects its full year effective tax rate to be in the range of 6% to 7%.
 As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 a liability of $9.3 million for uncertain tax positions is included in other long-term liabilities of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there was zero and $88 thousand increase to this liability reserve, respectively.
The Company recognizes interest accrued and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of income tax expense.
Effective February 7, 2016, Ebix and Vayam Technologies Ltd ("Vayam") formed a joint venture named Ebix Vayam Limited JV.
This joint venture was established to carry out IT projects in the government sector of the country of India and particularly in regards to the implementation of e-governance projects in the areas of education and healthcare.
Ebix has a 51% equity interest in the joint venture, and Vayam has a 49% equity interest in the joint venture.
Ebix is fully consolidating the
operations of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV into the Company's financial statements and separately reporting the Vayam minority, non-controlling, interest in the joint venture's net income and equity.
Vayam is also a customer of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV, and during the three and nine months ending September 30, 2019 the Ebix Vayam Limited JV recognized $198 thousand and $444 thousand of revenue from Vayam, respectively.
During the three and nine ending September 30, 2018, the Ebix Vayam Limited JV recognized $2.6 million and $12.8 million of revenue from Vayam, respectively, and as of September 30, 2019 the Ebix Vayam Limited JV had $22.8 million of accounts receivable with Vayam, net of the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts receivable in the amount of $12.1 million in the third quarter of 2019, the Company recorded as a bad debt reserve as a precautionary measure, against the receivables due from a public sector entity, BSNL, in India.
Payment of these receivables has been delayed due to liquidity issues at BSNL.
The Government of India has recently approved funding to BSNL and while the Company expects the accounts to be collectible once the Government funding reaches BSNL.
Effective September 1, 2015, Ebix and IHC formed the joint venture EbixHealth JV.
This joint venture was established to promote and market an administrative data exchange for health and pet insurance lines of business nationally.
Ebix paid $6.0 million and contributed a license to use certain CurePet software and systems valued by the EbixHealth JV at $2.0 million, for its initial 40% membership interest in the EbixHealth JV.
IHC contributed all of its shares in its existing third party administrator operations (IHC Health Solutions, Inc.), valued by the EbixHealth JV at $12.0 million for its 60% membership interest in the EbixHealth JV, and received a special distribution of $6.0 million.
Effective July 1, 2016 Ebix and IHC jointly executed a Call Notice agreement, whereby Ebix purchased additional common units in the EbixHealth JV from IHC constituting eleven percent (11%) of the EbixHealth JV for $2.0 million cash which resulted in Ebix holding an aggregate fifty-one percent (51%) of the EbixHealth JV.
Commensurate with its additional equity stake in the joint venture and a new contemporaneous valuation of the business, the Company realized a $1.2 million gain on its previously carried 40% equity interest in the EbixHealth JV.
This recognized gain was reflected as a component of other non-operating income in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income.
Beginning July 1, 2016, Ebix is fully consolidating the operations of the EbixHealth JV into the Company's financial statements and separately reporting the IHC minority, non-controlling, 49% interest in the joint venture's net income and equity, and thereby reflecting Ebix's net resulting 51% interest in the EbixHealth JV profits or losses.
IHC is also a customer of the EbixHealth JV, and during the three and nine months ending September 30, 2019 the EbixHealth JV recognized $660 thousand and $2.2 million, respectively, of revenue from IHC, and as of September 30, 2019 the EbixHealth JV had $322 thousand of accounts receivable from IHC.
Furthermore, as a related party, IHC also has been and continues to be a customer of Ebix, and during the three and nine months ending September 30, 2019 the Company recognized $20 thousand and $58 thousand revenue from IHC respectively, and as of September 30, 2019 IHC had $20 thousand of accounts receivable with Ebix.
In accordance with the relevant authoritative accounting literature, the Company has capitalized certain software and product related development costs associated with both the Company’s continuing medical education service offerings, the Company’s development of its property and casualty underwriting insurance data exchange platform servicing the London markets, and mobile applications and software enhancements under development for its EbixCash products.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and year ended December 31, 2018, respectively, the Company capitalized $4.1 million and $5.7 million of such development costs.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, a total of $13.7 million and $11.7 million, respectively, of remaining unamortized development costs are reported on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized $1.9 million and $1.6 million, respectively, of amortization expense with regards to these capitalized software development costs, which is included in costs of services provided in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
The capitalized continuing medical education product costs are being amortized using a three-year to five-year straight-line methodology.
The capitalized software development costs for the property and casualty underwriting insurance data exchange platform are being amortized over a period of five years.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).
This new accounting guidance is intended to improve financial reporting about leasing transactions.
The ASU requires organizations that lease assets referred to as “Lessees” to recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
An organization is to provide disclosures designed to enable users of financial statements to understand the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
These disclosures include qualitative and quantitative requirements concerning additional information about the amounts recorded in the financial statements.
Under the new guidance, a lessee is required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than twelve months.
Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease.
However, unlike former GAAP, which requires only financing leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new ASU requires both types of leases (i.e., operating and financing) to be recognized on the balance sheet.
The financing lease will be accounted for in substantially the same manner as capital leases were accounted for under the previous guidance.
For operating leases, there is now the recognition of a lease liability and a lease asset for all such leases greater than one year in term.
The Company leases office space under non-cancelable operating leases with expiration dates ranging through 2029, with various renewal options.
Finance leases range from three to five years and are primarily for office equipment.
There were multiple assets under various individual finance leases at September 30, 2019 and 2018.
Rental expense for office and airport facilities and certain equipment subject to operating leases for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $28.0 million and $14.7 million, respectively.
Credit Risk
The Company is potentially subject to concentrations of credit risk in its accounts receivable.
Credit risk is the risk of an
unexpected loss if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Although the Company is directly affected by the financial condition of its customers and the loss of or a substantial reduction in orders or the ability to pay from the customer could have a material effect on the condensed consolidated financial statements, management does not believe significant credit risks exist at September 30, 2019.
The Company had one customer whose accounts receivable balances individually represented 10% or more of the Company’s total accounts receivable.
As previously disclosed in Note 8, effective February 7, 2016, Ebix and Vayam formed a joint venture named Ebix Vayam Limited JV.
This joint venture was established to carry out IT projects in the government sector of the country of India and particularly in regards to the implementation of e-governance projects in the areas of education and healthcare.
Ebix has a 51% equity interest in the joint venture, and Vayam has a 49% equity interest in the joint venture.
Ebix is fully consolidating the
operations of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV into the Company's financial statements and separately reporting the Vayam minority, non-controlling, interest in the joint venture's net income and equity.
Vayam is also a customer of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV, and during the three and nine months ending September 30, 2019 the Ebix Vayam Limited JV recognized $198 thousand and $444 thousand of revenue from Vayam, respectively.
During the three and nine ending September 30, 2018, the Ebix Vayam Limited JV recognized $2.6 million and $12.8 million of revenue from Vayam, respectively, and as of September 30, 2019 the Ebix Vayam Limited JV had $22.8 million of accounts receivable with Vayam (net of the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts receivable in the amount of $12.1 million, in the third quarter of 2019, the Company recorded as a bad debt reserve as a precautionary measure, against the receivables due from a public sector entity, BSNL, in India.
Payment of these receivables has been delayed due to liquidity issues at BSNL.
The Government of India has recently approved funding to BSNL and the Company expects the accounts to be collectible once the Government funding reaches BSNL.
The Company maintains working capital debt facilities with banks in India for working capital funding requirements to support our foreign exchange, travel and remittance businesses.
We are required to extend short term credits to franchisee networks (B2B) and corporate customers.
Additionally we are required to maintain minimum levels of foreign currency inventory across branches and airport operations.
Typically, these facilities carry interest rates 9% to 10% and are rupee denominated working capital lines and are collateralized against the receivables of these businesses and existing foreign currency inventory on hand.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the total of these working capital facilities was $35.8 million and $17.8 million, respectively, and is included in current liabilities in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
There are no subsequent events to report.
Item 1: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
The Company is involved in various other claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate likely disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
Item 1A: RISK FACTORS
In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which could materially affect the Company's business, financial condition or future results.
There have not been any significant changes with respect to the risk factors described in the Company's 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The risks described in that 2018 Form 10-K and in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are not the only risks that the Company faces.
Additional risks
