fls.txt



item1.txt
Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us,” or similar references) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
We prepared the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position as of November 30, 2018, our consolidated comprehensive income for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, and our consolidated cash flows for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017.
The following discussion relates to acquisitions completed during fiscal 2018.
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, we acquired all of the equity interests of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
The aggregate preliminary purchase price of these acquisitions reflects total goodwill and identified intangible assets of approximately $77.0 million and $81.8 million, respectively.
Identified intangible assets consist of indefinite-lived marketing-related intangibles as well as definite-lived customer-based and technology-based assets, which have a weighted average useful life of approximately 14 years.
If so, the transaction does not qualify as a business.
The guidance also requires an acquired business to include at least one substantive process and narrows the definition of outputs.
We adopted ASU 2017-01 effective September 1, 2018 applying the guidance prospectively.
These cash flows include debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance.
We adopted ASU 2016-15 effective September 1, 2018 applying the changes retrospectively.
We received $0.6 million from corporate-owned life insurance policies during the three months ended November 30, 2018 and received no proceeds from these policies during the three months ended November 30, 2017.
We adopted ASC 606 effective September 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and recognized a cumulative effect of applying ASC 606 of $13.0 million in Retained earnings on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of this date.
Information for prior years presented has not been restated and continues to reflect the authoritative accounting standards in effect for those periods.


item2.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within this report.
Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us,” or similar references).
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
As of November 30, 2018, we operate 19 manufacturing facilities and eight distribution facilities along with three warehouses to serve our extensive customer base.
No acquisitions were completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Our principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from our business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements.
We currently expect to invest approximately 1.5% of net sales in capital expenditures during fiscal 2019.
For the first three months of fiscal 2019, $14.0 million was invested, primarily for new and enhanced information technology capabilities, equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Item 5.Other Information as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm; and (iii) approved, on an advisory basis, the Company's named executive officer compensation.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.


