fls.txt
Forward-looking statements include, without limitation: (a) the Company’s projections regarding financial performance, liquidity, capital structure, capital expenditures, and dividends; (b) expectations about the impact of softness in demand as well as volatility and uncertainty in general economic conditions and the pricing environment; (c) external forecasts projecting the North American lighting and building management solutions market growth rate and growth in the Company's addressable markets; (d) the Company's ability to execute and realize benefits from initiatives related to streamlining its operations, capitalize on growth opportunities, expand in key markets as well as underpenetrated geographies and channels, and introduce new lighting and building management solutions; (e) the Company’s estimate of its fiscal 2018 and 2019 tax rates, as well as the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows; (f) the Company’s estimate of future amortization expense; (g) the Company’s ability to achieve its long-term financial goals and measures and outperform the markets its serves; (h) the impact to the Company of changes in the political landscape and related policy changes; (i) the Company's projected future capital expenditures and investments; and (j) the Company's expectations about the resolution of trade compliance matters.


item1.txt
1.Description of Business and Basis of Presentation Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by the Company in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company’s consolidated financial position as of November 30, 2017, the consolidated comprehensive income for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, and the consolidated cash flows for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016.
No material reclassifications occurred during the current period.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 effective as of September 1, 2017.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
If so, the transaction does not qualify as a business.
The guidance also requires an acquired business to include at least one substantive process and narrows the definition of outputs.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows including debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance.
ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2017.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.


item2.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within this report.
Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”).
The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
As of November 30, 2017, the Company operates 19 manufacturing facilities and seven distribution facilities along with one warehouse to serve its extensive customer base.
The Company does not consider acquisitions a critical element of its strategy but seeks opportunities to expand and enhance its portfolio of solutions.
The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Item 1a.Risk Factors At the Company's annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018, in Atlanta, Georgia, the stockholders considered and voted on the following proposals.
This advisory vote will occur annually until the Board otherwise elects a different frequency for such non-binding, advisory votes or until another non-binding, advisory stockholder vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on executive compensation occurs.
The Company expects to publish a policy on sustainability, which it anticipates will be available on the Company’s website in the near future.


