fls.txt



item1.txt
Accordingly, these statements do not include all information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual consolidated financial statements, and should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2017 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended January 26, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full fiscal year or future operating periods.
There have been no significant changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the nine months ended January 26, 2018, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2017.
In May 2014, the FASB issued an accounting standards update related to the recognition and reporting of revenue that establishes a comprehensive new revenue recognition model designed to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
We will adopt this new standard, as amended, on its effective date in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
We do not expect that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our operating cash flows.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on financial reporting for leasing arrangements, including requiring lessees to recognize an operating lease with a term greater than one year on their balance sheets as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report.
The standard introduces a new model for measuring and recognizing credit losses on financial instruments, requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
Based on the composition of our investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this new standard on our consolidated financial statements.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this new standard on our consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
We provide a full range of hybrid cloud data services that simplify management of applications and data across cloud and on-premises environments to accelerate digital transformations.
Our Data Fabric approach simplifies and integrates data management across cloud and on-premises to accelerate digital transformation, enabling our customers to manage, secure and protect their data from on-premises to public to hybrid clouds, all at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world.
Our products and solutions portfolio empowers customers to harness the power of the hybrid cloud, build a next-generation data center, and modernize storage through data management.
With our all-flash array portfolio, including our AFF-Series, EF-Series and SolidFire SF-Series products, we enable customers to modernize storage and data management to boost performance in their traditional data centers, while mapping out their move to a hybrid cloud.
Our hybrid flash storage serves customers who want the option to deploy the speed of flash storage where they need it while using more affordable hard disk drives to address capacity requirements.
In addition to our products, we provide a variety of services including software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services including professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training to help customers most effectively manage their data.
We also declared cash dividends of an aggregate of $0.60 per share in that period, for which we paid an aggregate of $161 million.


item3.txt
We use certain derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange risks.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.
These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-Q or elsewhere.
These risks can and will change in the future.
If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products while managing the transition from older products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality, service and support for our new products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and related services.
Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical and quality control risks.
older product inventories and related components and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers’ demands.
Further risks inherent in new product and solutions introductions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors’ responses to the introductions, delays in sales caused by the desire of customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time and our partners’ investment in selling our new products and solutions.


