fls.txt



item1.txt
Accordingly, these statements do not include all information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual consolidated financial statements, and should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended April 26, 2019 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The results of operations for the three and six months ended October 25, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full fiscal year or future operating periods.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on financial reporting for leasing arrangements, including requiring lessees to recognize an operating lease with a term greater than one year on their balance sheets as a right-of-use (ROU) asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
Adoption of the new standard on April 27, 2019 resulted in the recognition of approximately $149 million of operating lease ROU assets, net of deferred rent and lease restructuring liabilities, $158 million of lease liabilities, and a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings of $6 million on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statements of operations or condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Leases − We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception, and we classify leases as operating or finance leases at commencement.
In our condensed consolidated balance sheets, operating lease ROU assets are included in other non-current assets, while finance lease ROU assets are included in property and equipment, net.
Lease liabilities for both types of leases are included in accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities.
Operating and finance lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
We do not separate non-lease components from lease components for any class of leases, and we do not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for leases with a lease term of twelve months or less.
There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended October 25, 2019, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 26, 2019.
It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
Based on the composition of our investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
We provide a full range of hybrid cloud data services that simplify management of applications and data across cloud and on-premises environments to accelerate digital transformation.
We deliver a Data Fabric with consistent data services for data visibility and insights, data access and control, and data protection and security, that unleashes the power of data to achieve a new competitive advantage.
NetApp’s unique approach to data services enables organizations to inspire innovation with the cloud, build clouds to accelerate new services, and modernize IT architecture with cloud-connected flash.
Our Data Fabric approach enables our customers to manage, secure and protect their data from on-premises to public to hybrid clouds, all at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world.
Flash plays a key role in customers’ digital transformation efforts as they seek to gain advantage through greater speed, responsiveness and value from key business applications - all while lowering total cost of ownership.
To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we group our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions.
In addition to our products and solutions, we provide a variety of services to our customers, including software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services including professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training.


item3.txt
We use certain derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange risks.


item4.txt



part2.txt
These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-Q or elsewhere.
These risks can and will change in the future.
Our business may be harmed by technological trends in our market or if we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological and market changes.
If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products and services while managing the transition from older ones, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality and support for our new products and services, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and services.
We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
We offer customers a full range of consumption models, including the deployment of our software through our subscription and cloud-based Software as a Service (SaaS), and utility pricing and managed services offerings for our hardware and software systems.
These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption-based offerings.


