The ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
CDW Finance Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed for the sole purpose of acting as co-issuer of certain debt obligations as described in Note 13 (Supplemental Guarantor Information) and does not hold any material assets or engage in any business activities or operations.
The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of March 31, 2019 and for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial statements.
The significant accounting policies used in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements were applied on a basis consistent with those reflected in the December 31, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements.
Except as noted below for the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases ("Topic 842"), there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The Company enters into operating lease contracts, as assessed at contract inception, primarily for real estate, data centers and equipment.
In determining the present value of future lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date.CDW Corporation is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, and government, education and healthcare customers in the US, the UK and Canada.
This is particularly the case for our Corporate and Small Business customers, as their purchases tend to reflect confidence in their business prospects, which are driven by their discrete perceptions of business and general economic conditions.
These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations, as well as the evolution of the IT consumption model to more "as-a-service" offerings, including Device-as-a-Service ("DaaS") and managed services.
Effective January 1, 2019, we made a change to the Non-GAAP financial measures that we use to provide meaningful methods of evaluating our financial performance and have replaced EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin with Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin.
In addition to Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin, we believe that the most important financial and non-financial measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per common share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable plus days of supply in Inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.
These measures and ratios are compared to standards or objectives set by management, so that actions can be taken, as necessary, in order to achieve the standards and objectives.
In this Form 10-Q, we discuss Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP operating income margin, Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income, which are non-GAAP financial measures.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
For the definitions of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, see "Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations."