item1.txt
Financial Statements.
This transaction was completed on December 4, 2018.
On July 16, 2019, the Company filed with the State of New York Department of State a Certificate of Amendment of its Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, changing its name to “Park Aerospace Corp.” after the Board of Directors of the Company approved such amendment and the shareholders of the Company approved such amendment at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access at the measurement date.
Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The fair value of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate their carrying value due to their short-term nature.
The income approach is based on a discounted cash flow analysis and calculates the fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to a reporting unit and then discounting the after-tax cash flows to a present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate.
Assumptions used in the discounted cash flow analysis require the exercise of significant judgment, including judgment about appropriate discount rates, terminal values, growth rates and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows.
With respect to goodwill, the Company first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that fair value is less than carrying value.
There have been no changes in events or circumstances which required impairment charges to be recorded during the 13 or 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019.
All marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in comprehensive earnings.
All of the Company’s leases have been assessed to be operating leases.
The incremental borrowing rate represents the Company’s ability to borrow on a collateralized basis over a term similar to the lease term.
The Company’s existing leases are not subject to any restrictions or covenants which preclude its ability to pay dividends, obtain financing or exercise its available renewal options.


item2.txt
Park offers an array of composite materials specifically designed for hand lay-up or automated fiber placement (AFP) manufacturing applications.
Park’s advanced composite materials are used to produce primary and secondary structures for jet engines, large and regional transport aircraft, military aircraft, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs commonly referred to as “drones”), business jets, general aviation aircraft and rotary wing aircraft.
As a complement to Park’s advanced composite materials offering, Park designs and fabricates composite parts, structures and assemblies and low volume tooling for the aerospace industry.
On July 16, 2019, the Company filed with the State of New York Department of State a Certificate of Amendment of its Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, changing its name to “Park Aerospace Corp.” after the Board of Directors of the Company approved such amendment and the shareholders of the Company approved such amendment at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
The Company's total net sales from continuing operations in the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 were $13.7 million and $28.7 million, respectively, compared to $11.2 million and $21.6 million, respectively, in the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended August 26, 2018.
The long-term contract with the customer is requirements based and does not guarantee quantities.
This order forecast is updated periodically during the term of the underlying contract.
The Company’s gross profit from continuing operations in the 13 weeks ended September 1, 2019 was higher than its gross profit from continuing operations in the prior year’s comparable period.
The decreases in such expenses during the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 were primarily the results of lower payroll, travel and entertainment and stock option expenses.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.
Other Information.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Item 1A.


