fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three and six months ended August 4, 2018, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2018 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
These amounts were not material to any of the periods presented.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 3, 2018 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
Fiscal 2018 had a 53-week year.
Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week year.
On July 6, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”).
The consolidated financial statements include the operating results of Cavium for the period from the date of acquisition to the Company's second quarter ended August 4, 2018.
In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers that superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP.
The guidance addresses, in particular, contracts with more than one performance obligation, as well as the accounting for certain costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer, and provides for additional disclosures with respect to revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
See "Note 5 - Revenue" for additional information on the impact of the adoption of the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to add or clarify guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows.
The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
We also develop integrated hardware platforms along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution.
Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, semiconductor and related industries and end markets.
In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
Our acquisition of Cavium involves a number of risks, including, among others, associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.
We used a significant portion of our cash and incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of our acquisition of Cavium (the "Cavium acquisition") that will reduce our liquidity and may (i) limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and (ii) increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.
The benefits we expect to realize from the Cavium acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the businesses successfully and efficiently.
We may not fully realize the benefits we expect to receive from the transaction, such as increasing revenue or profits, or receive them in the anticipated time frame.
Loss of key or skilled personnel could adversely impact product development or other aspects of the Company's business and operations.
On July 6, 2018, in connection with our acquisition of Cavium, we incurred substantial indebtedness pursuant to a Credit Agreement.
Although the Credit Agreement contains restriction on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued contains restrictions on creating liens and entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness, liens or sale-leaseback transactions incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.


