The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2018 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018.
These amounts were not material to any of the periods presented.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 3, 2018 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
Fiscal 2018 had a 53-week year.
Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week year.
On July 6, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”).
The consolidated financial statements include the operating results of Cavium for the period from the date of acquisition to the Company's third quarter ended November 3, 2018.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers that superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP.
The guidance addresses, in particular, contracts with more than one performance obligation, as well as the accounting for certain costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer, and provides for additional disclosures with respect to revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
See "Note 12 - Revenue" for additional information on the impact of the adoption of the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
We also develop integrated hardware platforms along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution.Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets.
In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
Our acquisition of Cavium involves a number of risks, including, among others, associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.
Loss of key or skilled personnel could adversely impact product development or other aspects of the Company's business and operations.
On July 6, 2018, in connection with our acquisition of Cavium, we incurred substantial indebtedness pursuant to a Credit Agreement.
In such event, we may not have sufficient available cash to repay such debt at the time it becomes due, or be able to refinance such debt on acceptable terms or at all.