fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three months ended May 5, 2018, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2018 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018.
The Company's financial results for prior periods presented herein have been recast to reflect certain businesses that were classified as discontinued operations during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017 and second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week year.
On November 19, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”), pursuant to which a subsidiary of the Company will merge with and into Cavium, with Cavium surviving and becoming a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger").
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Company will issue 2.1757 common shares and pay $40.00 per share in cash, without interest, for each share of Cavium common stock.
The Company intends to fund the cash consideration with a combination of cash on hand from the combined companies and $1.75 billion in debt financing.
The transaction is not subject to any financing condition.
The Company has recorded $20.1 million of associated deferred debt and equity financing costs on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of May 5, 2018.
In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers that superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP.
The guidance addresses, in particular, contracts with more than one performance obligation, as well as the accounting for certain costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer, and provides for additional disclosures with respect to revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
See "Note 3 - Revenue" for additional information on the impact of the adoption of the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
•our ability to complete the merger with Cavium, Inc. on a timely basis, or at all; •the outcome of pending or future litigation and legal and regulatory proceedings.
Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
Our proposed acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”) involves a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that we fail to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or at all, regulatory risks, risks associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.
If any conditions or changes to the structure of the proposed transaction are required to obtain these regulatory approvals, they may have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the proposed transaction or reducing our anticipated benefits.
If we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the proposed transaction, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.
In addition, the use of a significant portion of our cash and the incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the proposed transaction will reduce our liquidity and may limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.
If the Merger is not completed by September 19, 2018 (subject to a potential extension to November 19, 2018 under certain circumstances, including in the event receipt of certain required regulatory approvals has not been obtained), either Marvell or Cavium may choose to terminate the Merger Agreement.
Marvell or Cavium may also elect to terminate the Merger Agreement in certain other circumstances, or they may mutually decide to terminate the Merger Agreement at any time prior to the Effective Time, before or after obtaining shareholder approval, as applicable.
The benefits we expect to realize from the proposed transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the businesses successfully and efficiently.
Until the completion of the Merger or the termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms, Marvell and Cavium are each prohibited from entering into certain transactions and taking certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to Marvell or Cavium and their respective shareholders.
These restrictions may prevent Marvell and Cavium from making appropriate changes to their respective businesses or pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger.


