fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2019, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2019 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
Fiscal 2020 is a 52-week year.
This transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020.
As of November 2, 2019, the Company classified assets held for sale of $600.9 million, which consisted of $30.1 million of inventory, $7.3 million of property, plant and equipment, $557.8 million of goodwill and $5.6 million of right-of-use lease asset.
In addition, the Company classified liabilities held for sale of $5.6 million associated with lease and other liabilities in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The purchase price will be subject to working capital and other customary adjustments which will be determined at close.
On September 19, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of Aquantia Corp. (“Aquantia”).
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the operating results of Aquantia for the period from the date of acquisition to the Company’s third quarter ended November 2, 2019.
See Note 8, “Debt” for additional information.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which amends the existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligation created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The Company adopted the new lease accounting standard on February 3, 2019, using the modified retrospective approach by applying the new standard to leases existing at the date of initial application and not restating comparative periods.
The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
We are a leading supplier of infrastructure semiconductor solutions, spanning the data center core to network edge.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, our net revenue decreased year over year by 22% from $851.1 million net revenue in the third quarter fiscal 2019 compared with $662.5 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2020.


item3.txt
With our outstanding debt following our acquisition of Cavium, we are exposed to various forms of market risk, including the potential losses arising from adverse changes in interest rates on our outstanding Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets.
In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
•changes in general economic conditions, such as the impact of Brexit on the economy in the E.U., political conditions, such as the recent tariffs and trade bans, and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry; Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common shares at or above the price you paid.
As a result of stock price volatility, we may be subject to securities class action litigation.
On May 6, 2019, we entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire all outstanding shares of Aquantia Corp. common stock for $13.25 per share in cash.
On May 20, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement to purchase Avera Semiconductor, the Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) business of GlobalFoundries (“Avera”).
In addition, we have entered into an asset purchase agreement with NXP USA, Inc. dated May 29, 2019 pursuant to which we agreed to sell to NXP certain assets related to our wireless business for $1.76 billion in cash at closing, subject to working capital and other customary adjustments that will be determined at close.
•unavailability of acquisition financing on reasonable terms or at all.
If we fail to complete a transaction, we may nonetheless have incurred significant expenses in connection with such transaction.
Our acquisitions of Aquantia and Avera involve a number of risks, including, among others, those associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash or our taking on significant indebtedness and other financial risks and integration risks.


