fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three months ended May 4, 2019, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2019 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
Fiscal 2019 had a 52-week year.
Fiscal 2020 is a 52-week year.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which amends the existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligation created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The Company adopted the new lease accounting standard on February 3, 2019, using the modified retrospective approach by applying the new standard to leases existing at the date of initial application and not restating comparative periods.
The standard eliminates the threshold for initial recognition in current GAAP and reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses.
The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company elected to apply the short-term lease measurement and recognition exemption in which right-of use assets (“ROU”) and lease liabilities are not recognized for short-term leases.
The Cavium acquisition was primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions.
The total consideration paid to acquire Cavium, which consisted of cash, common stock of the Company and share based compensation awards was approximately $6.2 billion.
Any such revisions or changes may be material.


item2.txt
We are a leading supplier of infrastructure semiconductor solutions, spanning the data center core to network edge.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, our net revenue increased year over year by 9.6% from $604.6 million net revenue in the first quarter fiscal 2019 compared with $662.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The transaction is expected to close by the end of December 2019, subject to regulatory approval as well as other customary closing conditions, including the adoption by Aquantia's stockholders of the merger agreement.


item3.txt
A hypothetical increase or decrease in the interest rate by 1% would result in an increase or decrease in annual interest expense by approximately $3.0 million to $7.2 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets.
In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
As a result of stock price volatility, we may be subject to securities class action litigation.
We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers.
In addition, if regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, or the imposition of new tariffs, were to materially limit our ability to make sales to any of our significant customers, it could harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition.
In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our business which we cannot easily quantify such as the fact that some of our other customer’s products which use our solutions, such as hard disk drives, may also be impacted by this export restriction.
If this export restriction is sustained for a long period of time, or if other export restrictions were to be imposed as a result of current trade tensions such as restrictions on trade with Mexico or other countries, it could have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations.
Our acquisition of Cavium, and our proposed acquisitions of Aquantia and the Avera Semiconductor business of GLOBAL FOUNDRIES involve a number of risks, including, among others, associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness and other financial risks and integration risks.
We used a significant portion of our cash and incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of our acquisition of Cavium (the “Cavium acquisition”), and will use additional cash in the acquisitions of Aquantia and the Avera Semiconductor business of GLOBALFOUNDRIES (the “Other Acquisitions”).
The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking and infrastructure markets, is extremely competitive.


