fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
ASU 2016-15 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the guidance requires application using a retrospective method.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-15 as of January 1, 2018, which resulted in the Company presenting fees paid for debt extinguishment as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods shown.
ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments, except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, that have readily determinable fair values to be measured at fair value with any changes in fair value recognized in net income.
Equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values may be measured at estimated fair value or cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes, with changes in the carrying value recognized in net income.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 as of January 1, 2018, which did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606).
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2020 and earlier adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Company’s analysis of its real estate joint ventures for all periods presented indicate that none qualified as a VIE and, accordingly, they have not been consolidated.


item2.txt
We use net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Investments in non-marketable equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values and do not qualify for the practical expedient to measure the investment using a net asset value per share are recorded using the measurement alternative in ASU 2016-01.
These investments are recorded at cost, less impairment, adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer.
At each reporting period, we assess if these investments continue to qualify for this measurement alternative.
We have certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity method of accounting in which our carrying value exceeds the proportionate share of net assets of the unconsolidated affiliate.
In connection with this acquisition, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) pursuant to which we borrowed an aggregate of approximately $7.4 billion (approximately $524.5 million of which was rolled over from our existing credit facility).
A portion of these proceeds was used to repay our Senior Notes and the remaining amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit facility.
DST is a global provider of specialized technology, strategic advisory and business operations outsourcing to the financial services and healthcare industries.
The relevant business combination disclosures have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
We funded the acquisition with a combination of cash and $875.0 million in incremental term loan debt.
Our revenues increased $574.2 million, or 137.3%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which included CommonWealth Fund Services Ltd. (“CommonWealth”) in the fourth quarter of 2017 and DST and CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) in the second quarter of 2018 which, combined, contributed $563.2 million in revenues.


item3.txt
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.


