fls.txt
We do not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.


item1.txt
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
Prior period information was not restated and continues to be presented under ASC 840, Leases.
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition.
In addition, we will not apply the guidance of ASC 842 to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less as allowed by the standard.
As of June 30, 2019, $56.2 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We determine if our contractual agreements contain a lease at inception.
Our lease agreements consist primarily of operating leases for office space.
We recognized operating lease expense of $0.7 million and $1.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, related to these lease agreements.


item2.txt
Our revenues increased $252.2 million, or 28.2%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which partially included DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) and CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) in the second quarter of 2018 and Eze Software Group, LLC (“Eze”) and Intralinks Holdings, Inc. (“Intralinks”) in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $241.6 million in revenues.
Software-enabled services revenues increased $221.1 million, or 29.8%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $236.2 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business.
The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $7.3 million.
The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $1.8 million.
Software-enabled services revenues increased $898.3 million, or 86.7%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $904.8 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business.
The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $8.6 million.
The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $3.3 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $6.4 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $5.5 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $0.9 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $9.9 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $8.3 million.


item3.txt
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
We have generally invested our available cash in short-term, highly liquid financial instruments, having initial maturities of three months or less.


item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission.


part2.txt
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.


