fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
The December 31, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet data were derived from audited financial statements but do not include all disclosures required by GAAP for annual financial statements.
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-15, which did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASC 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605 and 985 and requires entities to recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2020 and earlier adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
This ASU would require lessees to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases) at the commencement date; (i) a lease liability, which is a lessee’s obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and (ii) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee’s right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term.
Lessor accounting is largely unchanged under the amendments of this ASU.
Additional disclosures will be required to allow the user to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leasing activities.
The Company is continuing its assessment, which may identify additional impacts this ASU will have on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures and internal controls over financial reporting.


item2.txt
DST is a global provider of specialized technology, strategic advisory and business operations outsourcing to the financial services and healthcare industries.
The relevant business combination disclosures will be included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements once preliminary accounting has been completed.
Offsetting the overall decrease in license, maintenance and related revenues was an increase of $1.5 million due to the favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Our total cost of revenues increased $12.1 million or 5.6%.
These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.
We derive our revenues from the delivery of products and services to clients primarily in the financial services and healthcare industries.
and services; (ii) impair our clients’ ability to pay for products they have purchased; or (iii) cause our clients to process fewer transactions through our software-enabled services, renegotiate their contracts with us, move their IT solutions in-house, switch to lower-priced solutions offered by our competitors or exit the industry.
In addition, any other events that adversely affect our clients’ businesses, rates of growth or numbers of clients they serve could decrease demand for our products and services and the number of transactions we process.
We may be unsuccessful in predicting the needs of changing industries and whether potential clients will accept our products or services.
We also may invest in technology or infrastructure for specific clients and not realize additional revenue from such investments.
If trends or events do not occur as we expect, our business could be negatively impacted.
Acquisitions may also place a significant strain on our administrative, operational, financial and other resources.
See also “-Risks Relating to Our Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc.” Consolidations or failures among our clients or within their respective industries could adversely affect us by causing a decline in demand for our products and services.
We derive significant revenues from asset management, administration and distribution contracts with such clients.


