item1.txt
The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.


item2.txt
We are a leading global provider of mission-critical communication infrastructure, devices, accessories, software, and services. Our products and services help government, public safety and commercial customers improve their operations through increased effectiveness, efficiency, and safety of their mobile workforces. We serve our customers with a global footprint of sales in more than 100 countries and 16,000 employees worldwide, based on our industry leading innovation and a deep portfolio of products and services.
Net sales were $1.9 billion in the third quarter of 2018, a $217 million, or 13%, increase compared to the third quarter of 2017. The net sales increase for the third quarter of 2018 included $145 million from acquisitions and $19 million from the adoption of ASC 606 (see Note 1 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by $9 million from unfavorable foreign currency rates. The Products and Systems Integration segment grew 10% driven by the Americas and EMEA. The Services and Software segment grew 22% with growth in all regions.
The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in the Americas and EMEA. Devices net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP. Systems and Systems Integration net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in every region. The Services and Software segment net sales increased in every region. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by acquisitions within the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. 
Net sales were $5.1 billion in the first nine months of 2018, a $666 million, or 15%, increase compared to the first nine months of 2017. The net sales increase for the first nine months of 2018 included $347 million from acquisitions, $58 million from the adoption of ASC 606 (see Note 1 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), and $56 million from favorable foreign currency rates. The Products and Systems Integration segment grew 11% driven by the Americas and EMEA. The Services and Software segment grew 23% with growth in all regions.
The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in every region. Within the Products and Systems Integration segment, Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP and Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in every region. The Services and Software segment increased in every region. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by acquisitions within the Software business, the acquisition of Interexport in Services and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by the acquisition of Kodiak Networks in the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and the Software businesses.
For the third quarter of 2018, the segment’s net sales represented 69% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 71% of our consolidated net sales for the third quarter of 2017. For the first nine months of 2018, the segment's net sales represented 67% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 70% of our consolidated net sales for the first nine months of 2017.
The segment’s net sales increased $114 million, to $1.3 billion in the third quarter of 2018, as compared to $1.2 billion during the third quarter of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by an increase in Devices and Systems and Systems Integration sales. Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions and decreased in AP. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in AP due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions. 
The segment’s net sales increased $353 million, to $3.4 billion in the first nine months of 2018, as compared to $3.1 billion during the first nine months of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by an increase in Devices and Systems and Systems Integration sales. Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions and decreased in AP. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in AP due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions. 
For third quarter of 2018, the segment’s net sales represented 31% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 29% of our consolidated net sales for the third quarter of 2017. For the first nine months of 2018, the segment's net sales represented 33% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 30% of our consolidated net sales for the first nine months of 2017.
The segment’s net sales increased $103 million, or 22%, to $574 million in the third quarter of 2018, as compared to $471 million in the third quarter of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by acquisitions within the Software business, as well as growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. On a geographic basis, net sales for the third quarter of 2018 increased in every region, compared to the third quarter of 2017. 
The segment’s net sales increased $313 million, or 23%, to $1.7 billion in the first nine months of 2018, as compared to $1.3 billion in the first nine months of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by acquisitions within the Software business and the Interexport acquisition within Services, as well as growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. On a geographic basis, net sales for the first nine months of 2018 increased in every region, compared to the first nine months of 2017. 
At September 29, 2018, $290 million of the $851 million cash and cash equivalents balance was held in the U.S. and $561 million was held by us or our subsidiaries in other countries, with approximately $200 million held in the United Kingdom. Restricted cash was $12 million at September 29, 2018 and $63 million at December 31, 2017. During the three months ended September 29, 2018, restricted cash decreased from $63 million to $12 million due to the completion of a settlement related to our legacy Networks business. 
Net cash provided by operating activities in the first nine months of 2018 decreased $322 million, compared to the first nine months of 2017. Operating cash flows in the first nine months of 2018, as compared to the first nine months of 2017, were negatively impacted by a $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan in February 2018, a settlement payment related to our legacy Networks business, higher incentive payments, and the recovery of financial receivables owed to us by a former customer in the first quarter of 2017, partially offset by improved working capital. The contribution to our U.S. pension plan moves the next anticipated required contribution to 2024, or beyond.
On August 25, 2015, we entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 2.00% Senior Convertible Notes which mature in September 2020. The notes became fully convertible as of August 25, 2017. The notes are convertible based on a conversion rate of 14.8252, as may be adjusted for dividends declared, per $1,000 principal amount (which is currently equal to a conversion price of $67.45 per share). The exercise price adjusts automatically for dividends. On September 5, 2018, we agreed with Silver Lake Partners to repurchase $200 million in principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes for aggregate consideration of $369 million in cash, inclusive of the conversion premium. As of September 29, 2018, we paid $169 million of cash to Silver Lake Partners and recorded a gain of $6 million from the extinguishment of the convertible debt. The principal amount of $200 million was reclassified to short term debt. In the event of an additional conversion, the notes may be settled in either cash or stock, at our discretion. We intend to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash.
As of September 29, 2018, we had a $2.2 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving credit facility scheduled to mature in April 2022 (the "2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement"). As of March 31, 2018, we borrowed $400 million under the facility to complete the Avigilon acquisition. As of September 29, 2018, the outstanding loan amount under the facility was $100 million, with $200 million paid during the third quarter. Subsequent to the quarter, we paid the remaining $100 million. The 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement includes a $500 million letter of credit sub-limit with $450 million of fronting commitments. Borrowings under the facility bear interest at the prime rate plus the applicable margin, or at a spread above the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), at our option. The weighted average borrowing rate on outstanding amounts for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018 was 3.58%. An annual facility fee is payable on the undrawn amount of the credit line. The interest rate and facility fee are subject to adjustment if our credit rating changes. We must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement. We were in compliance with our financial covenants as of September 29, 2018. 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-14, “Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20) - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans,” which modifies the disclosure requirements for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans. The ASU is effective for us on January 1, 2020 with early adoption permitted. The ASU requires a retrospective adoption method. We do not believe the ASU will have a material impact on our financial statement disclosures.
We adopted ASU No. 2017-07, “Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715) - Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost” on January 1, 2018 using the retrospective method of adoption. The amendments in the ASU require that an employer disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net periodic cost (benefit) and report that component in the same line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by employees during the period. The other components of net periodic cost (benefit) are required to be presented in the statement of operations separately from the service cost component and outside of operating earnings. We have restated our comparative period results to reflect the application of the presentation guidance of the ASU. As a result of the ASU, the presentation of net periodic cost (benefit) has been updated to classify all components of our net periodic benefit, with the exception of the service cost component, within Other in Other income (expense) on the statement of operations. We reclassified $18 million and $10 million in the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, and $58 million and $10 million in the nine months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
We retained much of the same accounting treatment used to recognize revenue under ASC 606 as under accounting standards in effect in prior periods. Revenue on a significant portion of our System and Integration services contracts continues to be recognized under percentage of completion accounting, applying a cost-to-cost method. Services contracts continue to be recognized ratably over relevant contract terms as we stand ready to perform. Finally, revenue on equipment sales continues to be recognized based on delivery terms as aligned with the transfer of control.
The new standard clarified the definition of a receivable and requires us to present our net position in a contract with a customer on the balance sheet. The position is presented as either a receivable, contract asset, or a contract liability. Under the new definition, accounts receivable are unconditional rights to consideration from a customer. Contract assets represent rights to consideration from a customer in exchange for transferred goods and services that are conditional on events other than the passage of time. Contract liabilities represent obligations to transfer goods and services for which we have received, or is due, consideration from a customer respectively. We reclassified our customer positions to align with the new definitions and presentation guidance. Accordingly, Unbilled accounts receivable and Costs and earnings in excess of billings have been reclassified from Accounts receivable and Other current assets, respectively, and are presented as Contract assets. Accounts receivable which are not due from customers have been reclassified into Other current assets. Deferred revenue, Billings in excess of costs and earnings, and Customer downpayments have been reclassified from Accrued liabilities and are presented as Contract liabilities. Non-current deferred revenue has been reclassified from Deferred revenue to Non-current contract liabilities within Other liabilities.


item3.txt
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
As of September 29, 2018, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $782 million, compared to $507 million outstanding as of December 31, 2017. Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.


item4.txt
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


