item1.txt
The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.


item2.txt
On March 11, 2019, we announced that we acquired Avtec, Inc. ("Avtec"), a provider of dispatch communications for U.S. public safety and commercial customers for a purchase price of $136 million in cash, net of cash acquired. This acquisition expands our commercial portfolio with new capabilities, allowing us to offer an enhanced platform for customers to communicate, coordinate resources, and secure their facilities. The business will be part of both the Products and Systems Integration and Services and Software segments. 
On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation ("Avigilon"), a provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million in cash.
On March 7, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc. ("Plant"), the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million in cash. This acquisition expanded our software portfolio in the command center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1.
We are a leading global provider of mission-critical communications. Our technology platforms in communications, software, video, and services make cities safer and help communities and businesses thrive. We are ushering in a new era in public safety and security. We serve our customers with a global footprint of sales in more than 100 countries and 17,000 employees worldwide based on our industry leading innovation and a deep portfolio of products and services.
Cash payments for employee severance in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $14 million in the first quarter of 2019 and employee severance and exit costs were $15 million in the first quarter of 2018. The reorganization of business accrual at March 30, 2019 was $78 million, of which relate to employee separation costs that are expected to be paid within one year.
As of March 30, 2019, we had $800 million of 2.0% Senior Convertible Notes outstanding with Silver Lake Partners which mature in September 2020 and are fully convertible. The notes are convertible based on a conversion rate of 14.8968, as may be adjusted for dividends declared, per $1,000 principal amount (which is currently equal to a published conversion price of $67.13 per share). The exercise price adjusts automatically for dividends. In the event of a conversion, the notes may be settled in either cash or stock, at our discretion. We intend to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash.
As of March 30, 2019, we had a $2.2 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving credit facility scheduled to mature in April 2022 (the "2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement"). The 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement includes a $500 million letter of credit sub-limit with $450 million of fronting commitments. Borrowings under the facility bear interest at the prime rate plus the applicable margin, or at a spread above LIBOR, at our option. An annual facility fee is payable on the undrawn amount of the credit line. The interest rate and facility fee are subject to adjustment if our credit rating changes. We must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement. We were in compliance with our financial covenants as of March 30, 2019. During the first quarter of 2018, we borrowed $400 million to facilitate the Avigilon acquisition. There were no borrowings outstanding or letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility as of March 30, 2019.
During the three months ended March 30, 2019, we paid an aggregate of $145 million, including transaction costs, to repurchase approximately 1.2 million shares at an average price of $118.98 per share. As of March 30, 2019, we had used approximately $12.6 billion of the share repurchase authority, including transaction costs, to repurchase shares, leaving $1.4 billion of authority available for future repurchases.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-14, “Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20) - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans,” which modifies the disclosure requirements for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans. The ASU is effective for us on January 1, 2021 with early adoption permitted. The ASU requires a retrospective adoption method. We do not believe the ASU will have a material impact on our financial statement disclosures.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, "Leases," which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. This was subsequently amended by ASU No. 2018-01, “Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842,” ASU No. 2018-10, “Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases,” and ASU No. 2018-11, “Targeted Improvements” (collectively "ASC 842"). ASC 842 establishes a right-of-use model ("ROU") that requires a lessee to recognize a 
ASC 842 provides for a number of optional practical expedients in transition. We elected the practical expedients, which permit us to not reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs under ASC 842. We did not elect the "use-of hindsight" practical expedient to determine the lease term or in assessing the likelihood that a lease purchase option will be exercised, allowing us to carry forward the lease term as determined prior to adoption of ASC 842. Finally, we also elected the practical expedient related to land easements, which enabled us to continue our accounting treatment for land easements on existing agreements as of January 1, 2019.
ASC 842 also provides practical expedients for an entity’s ongoing accounting. We elected the short-term lease recognition exemption for all leases that qualify. A short-term lease is one with a term of 12 months or less, including any optional periods that are reasonably certain of exercise. For those leases that qualify, the exemption allows us to not recognize ROU assets or lease liabilities, including not recognizing ROU assets or lease liabilities for existing short-term leases at transition. Short-term lease costs are recognized as rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term consistent with our prior accounting. We also elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components for all current lease categories. 
We recognized operating lease liabilities of $648 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments determined under prior lease accounting standards and corresponding ROU assets of $588 million. The $60 million difference between operating lease liabilities and ROU assets recognized is due to deferred rent and exit cost accruals recorded under prior lease accounting standards. ASC 842 requires such balances to be reclassified against ROU assets at transition. In future periods such balances will not be presented separately.
On January 3, 2019, as partial consideration for the acquisition of VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location, we issued 1,802,379 shares of the Company at a fair value of $198 million, inclusive of $38 million related to compensation withheld from the purchase that will be expensed over an average service period of one year, to certain of the former owners of VaaS. These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation. 


item3.txt
As of March 30, 2019, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $897 million, compared to $819 million outstanding as of December 31, 2018. Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.


item4.txt
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
On January 3, 2019, as partial consideration for the acquisition of VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location, we issued 1,802,379 shares of the Company at a fair value of $198 million, inclusive of $38 million related to compensation withheld from the purchase that will be expensed over an average service period of one year, to certain of the former owners of VaaS. These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation. 
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


