fls.txt
10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
Continued on next page.
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
We elected the package of practical expedients which did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from non-lease components for all underlying asset classes.
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment, and finance leases primarily for vehicles.
Finance lease liabilities at June 30, 2019 of $2,852 are included in current portion of long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.
non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component.


item2.txt
Revenues primarily consist of sales of air conditioning, heating, and refrigeration equipment, and related parts and supplies.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
In 2011, we formed a second joint venture with Carrier and completed two additional transactions.
In April 2011, Carrier contributed 28 of its company-owned locations in the Northeast U.S., and we contributed 14 locations in the Northeast U.S.
Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and now operates as one of our stand-alone-subsidiaries.
In 2012, we formed a third joint venture, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise III, with UTC Canada Corporation, referred to as UTC Canada, an affiliate of Carrier.
10-Q, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
10-K, as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2019.
In the following narratives, computations and other information referring to “same-store basis” exclude the effects of locations closed, acquired, or locations opened, unless they are within close geographical proximity to existing locations, during the immediately preceding 12 months.
Revenues for the second quarter of 2019 increased $39.1 million, or 3%, including $22.8 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.6 million from locations closed.
non-equipment products.
Interest expense, net for the second quarter of 2019 increased $0.4 million, or 59%, primarily as a result of an increase in average outstanding borrowings and a higher effective interest rate for the 2019 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2018.
The effective income tax rates attributable to us were 21.7% and 23.8% for the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt



