fls.txt
10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
Continued on next page.
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
-lived intangible assets and long-lived intangible assets.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
See Note 2.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
that did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
non-lease components for all underlying asset classes.
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment, and finance leases primarily for vehicles.
Finance lease ROU assets at September 30, 2019 of $2,960 are included in property and equipment, net in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.


item2.txt
the continued viability of our business strategy.
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, as well as the other documents and reports that we file with the SEC.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products.
Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and now operates as one of our stand-alone-subsidiaries.
In 2012, we formed a third joint venture, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise III, with UTC Canada Corporation, referred to as UTC Canada, an affiliate of Carrier.
10-Q, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
In the following narratives, computations and other information referring to “same-store basis” exclude the effects of locations closed, acquired, or locations opened, unless they are within close geographical proximity to existing locations, during the immediately preceding 12 months.
Revenues for the third quarter of 2019 increased $98.9 million, or 8%, including $58.7 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $4.2 million from locations closed.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $44.4 million, or 3%, as compared to the same period in 2018, reflecting a 4% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (69% of sales), which included a 6% increase in residential HVAC equipment, a 2% increase in sales of other HVAC products (27% of sales) and 1% increase of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).
Gross profit margin for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 declined 60 basis-points to 24.0% versus 24.6% for the same period in 2018, primarily due to the benefit of Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of 2019 increased $12.5 million, or 6%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses included $1.5 million of additional costs for 2019 in excess of 2018 for ongoing technology initiatives, driven in part by our acquisition of Alert Labs in August 2018.
On a same-store basis, selling, general and administrative expenses were flat as compared to the same period in 2018.


item4.txt
13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“the Exchange Act”)) that are, among other things, designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Executive Vice President (“EVP”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure and appropriate SEC filings.


