fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
The standard is principle-based and provides a five-step model to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance related to certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
We will adopt this guidance on January 1, 2019.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
We adopted the New Revenue Standard on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach.
Our performance obligations for services are satisfied when the services are rendered within the arranged service period.
We estimate product returns based on historical experience and record them on a gross basis.
Substantially all customer returns relate to products that are returned under warranty obligations underwritten by manufacturers.
We estimate sales incentives expected to be paid over the term of the contract based on the most likely amount.
We generally expense sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period is one year or less.


item2.txt
•   the continued viability of our business strategy.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements, including the notes thereto, included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Other significant selling, general and administrative expenses relate to the operation of warehouse facilities, including a fleet of trucks and forklifts, and facility rent, which are payable mostly under non-cancelable operating leases.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter.
Demand related to the new construction market is generally evenly distributed throughout the year, subject to weather and economic conditions, including their effect on the number of housing completions.
In 2011, we formed a second joint venture with Carrier and completed two additional transactions.
In April 2011, Carrier contributed 28 of its company-owned locations in the Northeast U.S., and we contributed 14 locations in the Northeast U.S.
We have a 60% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise III, and UTC Canada has a 40% non-controlling interest.
Our critical accounting policies are included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018.
Refer to Note 1 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recently adopted and to be adopted accounting standards.


item4.txt



part2.txt



