fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
The excess, if any, of the carrying amount of our investment over our ownership percentage in the underlying net assets of the investee is attributed to certain fair value adjustments with the remaining portion recognized as goodwill.
Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to conform to the 2018 presentation.
The standard is principle-based and provides a five-step model to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized.
Most prominent among the changes to the standard is the requirement that changes in the fair value of equity investments, with certain exceptions, be recognized through net income rather than other comprehensive income.
A cumulative-effect adjustment captured the previously held unrealized losses of $301 related to our equity investment carried at fair value.
In May 2017, the FASB issued guidance to clarify when to account for a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the accounting for hedging derivatives.
In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
We adopted the New Revenue Standard on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period results have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
We satisfy our performance obligations for services when we render the services within the agreed-upon service period.


item2.txt
•   the continued viability of our business strategy.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements, including the notes thereto, included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Other significant selling, general and administrative expenses relate to the operation of warehouse facilities, including a fleet of trucks and forklifts, and facility rent, which are payable mostly under non-cancelable operating leases.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter.
Demand related to the new construction market is generally evenly distributed throughout the year, subject to weather and economic conditions, including their effect on the number of housing completions.
In 2011, we formed a second joint venture with Carrier and completed two additional transactions.
In April 2011, Carrier contributed 28 of its company-owned locations in the Northeast U.S., and we contributed 14 locations in the Northeast U.S.
We have a 60% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise III, and UTC Canada has a 40% non-controlling interest.
Our critical accounting policies are included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018.
Refer to Note 1 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recently adopted and to be adopted accounting standards.


item4.txt



part2.txt



