fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
Continued on next page.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2019 are presented under the New Lease Standard, while prior period results have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
We elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess 1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, 2) lease classification for existing leases and 3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment and finance leases primarily for vehicles.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use assets, current portion of long-term obligations, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1-9 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to five years.
Certain real property lease agreements have lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component.


item2.txt
the continued viability of our business strategy.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements, including the notes thereto, included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Other significant selling, general and administrative expenses relate to the operation of warehouse facilities, including a fleet of trucks and forklifts, and facility rent, a majority of which facilities we operate under non-cancelable operating leases.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter.
We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, and Carrier has a 20% non-controlling interest.
In April 2011, Carrier contributed 28 of its company-owned locations in the Northeast U.S., and we contributed 14 locations in the Northeast U.S.
In 2012, we formed a third joint venture, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise III, with UTC Canada Corporation, referred to as UTC Canada, an affiliate of Carrier.
Our critical accounting policies are included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2019.
The following narratives reflect our acquisition of Alert Labs, Inc. in August 2018, our acquisition of an HVAC distributor in November 2018 and the purchase of an additional 1.4% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”) in June 2018.
Revenues for the first quarter of 2019 increased $4.7 million, or 1%, including $4.1 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $2.7 million from locations closed.
Gross profit for the first quarter of 2019 increased $2.9 million, or 1%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.


item4.txt



part2.txt
filed herewith.


