fls.txt



item1.txt
NetApp, Inc. (we, us, or the Company) provides global organizations the ability to manage and share their data across on-premises, private and public clouds.
Together with our partners, we provide a full range of enterprise-class software, systems and services solutions that customers use to modernize their infrastructures, build next generation data centers and harness the power of hybrid clouds.
Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week year ending on the last Friday in April.
The statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for interim financial information.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; valuation of investment securities; income taxes and fair value measurements.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
We will adopt this new standard, as amended, on its effective date in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Additionally, as we continue to assess the new standard along with industry trends and additional interpretive guidance, we may adjust our implementation plan accordingly.
We do not expect that the new standard will result in substantive changes in our deliverables or the amounts of revenue allocated between multiple deliverables, with the exception of the items discussed above.
This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020, although early adoption is permitted.
We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report.
It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
In February 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that amends guidance on how entities account for the derecognition of a nonfinancial asset or an in substance nonfinancial asset that is not a business.


item2.txt
We are the data authority for hybrid cloud environments.
Together with our partners, we empower global organizations to unleash the full potential of their data to expand customer touchpoints, foster greater innovation, and optimize their operations.
Our Data Fabric approach simplifies and integrates data management across cloud and on-premises to accelerate digital transformation, enabling our customers to manage, secure and protect their data from on-premises to public to hybrid clouds, all at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world.
We focus on delivering an exceptional customer experience to become their preferred data partner.
Our products and solutions portfolio empowers customers to harness the power of the hybrid cloud, build a next-generation data center, and modernize storage through data management.
We will continue to extend our cloud integration and hybrid cloud leadership by expanding our product offerings and services to match customer needs across the cloud and on-premises.
Our FAS storage platform uses the NetApp Data ONTAP storage operating system to deliver integrated data protection, comprehensive data management, and built-in efficiency software for virtualized, shared infrastructures, cloud computing, and mixed workload business applications.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.
The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements.
These risks can and will change in the future.
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and related services.
older product inventories and related components and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers’ demands.
Further risks inherent in new product and solutions introductions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors’ responses to the introductions, delays in sales caused by the desire of customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time and our partners’ investment in selling our new products and solutions.
We offer customers a full range of consumption models, including the deployment of our software through our subscription and cloud-based SaaS, and utility pricing and managed services offerings for our hardware and software systems.
These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption based offerings.


