fls.txt



item1.txt
Together with our partners, we provide a full range of enterprise-class software, systems and services solutions that customers use to modernize their infrastructures, build next generation data centers and harness the power of hybrid clouds.
Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week year ending on the last Friday in April.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company, and reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income and cash flows for the interim periods presented.
The statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for interim financial information.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; valuation of investment securities; income taxes and fair value measurements.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
Accordingly, our prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and information, as presented herein, have been restated to conform to the new rules.
In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update (ASU) which eliminates the deferred tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted this ASU using a modified retrospective transition approach and recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings by $51 million, with a corresponding reduction of prepaid taxes, which were classified as other non-current assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Refer to Note 4 – Supplemental Financial Information for a detail of the components of our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash balances.
There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended October 26, 2018, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2018.
This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020, although early adoption is permitted.
It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
In September 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell certain land and buildings located in Sunnyvale, California, through two separate and independent closings, the first of which was completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.


item2.txt
In order to successfully digitally transform, data must become the lifeblood of an organization and be used as a business accelerator.
Data-driven digital transformations accelerate business outcomes.
Together with our partners, we empower global organizations to unleash the full potential of their data to enable new customer touchpoints, create innovative business opportunities and optimize operations.
Our Data Fabric simplifies and integrates data management across clouds and on-premises to accelerate digital transformation, enabling our customers to manage, secure and protect their data at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world.
We focus on delivering an exceptional customer experience to become our customers’ preferred data partner.
NetApp’s unique approach to managing data holistically enables organizations to inspire innovation with the cloud, build clouds to accelerate new services, and modernize IT architecture with cloud-connected flash.
Continually fuel business growth by delivering data-rich customer experiences through new application deployments that easily use data and services regardless of where they reside or in what form.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes in Part I, Item 1 – Financial Statements and Part I, Item 2 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-Q.
The following discussion reflects our current judgment regarding the most significant risks we face.
These risks can and will change in the future.
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and related services.
avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and related components and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers’ demands.
Further risks inherent in new product and solutions introductions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors’ responses to the introductions, delays in sales caused by the desire of customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time and our partners’ investment in selling our new products and solutions.
We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities.


