fls.txt



item1.txt
Together with our partners, we provide a full range of enterprise-class software, systems and services solutions that customers use to modernize their infrastructures, build next generation data centers and harness the power of hybrid clouds.
Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week year ending on the last Friday in April.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company, and reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, cash flows and stockholders’ equity for the interim periods presented.
The statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for interim financial information.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; investment impairments; income taxes and fair value measurements.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we adopted this new standard using the modified retrospective approach, electing the optional transition approach of not adjusting our comparative period financial statements for the impacts of adoption.
We also elected the package of practical expedients that did not require us to reassess existing leases under the new guidance, and the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components for all leases.
Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statements of operations or condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Additional information is presented below and in Note 10 – Leases.
Leases − We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception, and we classify leases as operating or finance leases at commencement.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over that term.
Variable lease payments not dependent on an index or rate are expensed as incurred and not included within the calculation of ROU assets and lease liabilities.
It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
In September 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell certain land and buildings located in Sunnyvale, California, through two separate and independent closings, the first of which was completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.


item2.txt
Together with our partners, we empower global organizations to unleash the full potential of their data to expand customer touchpoints, foster greater innovation and optimize their operations.
Our Data Fabric simplifies the integration and orchestration of data for applications and analytics in clouds, across clouds and on-premises to accelerate digital transformation.
We focus on delivering an exceptional customer experience to become our customers’ preferred data partner.
Continually fuel business growth by delivering data-rich customer experiences through new application deployments that easily use data and services regardless of where they reside or in what form.
Free the resources necessary to fund transformation by deploying the industry’s leading flash storage solution, which is highly efficient and scales from the edge to the core to the cloud.
NetApp believes the hybrid cloud is fast becoming the dominant model for enterprise IT.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.
The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements.
These risks can and will change in the future.
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and services.
are introduced, we must also avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and related components and ensure that new products and services can be delivered to meet customers’ demands.
Further risks inherent in the introduction of new products, services and solutions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors’ responses to the introductions, delays in sales caused by the desire of customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time and our partners’ investment in selling our new products and solutions.
We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
We incur certain expenses associated with the infrastructure and marketing of our consumption model offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings.


