ITEM 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market Risks
Our cash flows and earnings are subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in raw material costs, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
We manage our exposure to these market risks through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.
We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives.
We monitor our underlying market risk exposures on an ongoing basis and believe that we can modify or adapt our hedging strategies as needed.
Counterparty Risks
We have entered into lead forward purchase contracts and foreign exchange forward and purchased option contracts to manage the risk associated with our exposures to fluctuations resulting from changes in raw material costs and foreign currency exchange rates.
The Company’s agreements are with creditworthy financial institutions.
Those contracts that result in a liability position at September 30, 2018 are $4.3 million (pre-tax).
Those contracts that result in an asset position at September 30, 2018 are $0.1 million (pre-tax) and the vast majority of these will settle within one year.
The impact on the Company due to nonperformance by the counterparties has been evaluated and not deemed material.
Interest Rate Risks
We are exposed to changes in variable U.S. interest rates on borrowings under our credit agreements as well as short-term borrowings in our foreign subsidiaries.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense, on an annualized basis, by approximately $3.2 million on the variable rate portions of our debt.
Commodity Cost Risks – Lead Contracts
For the remaining two quarters of this fiscal year, we believe approximately 56% of the cost of our lead requirements is known.
This takes into account the hedge contracts in place at September 30, 2018, lead purchased by September 30, 2018 that will be reflected in future costs under our FIFO accounting policy, and the benefit from our lead tolling program.
We estimate that a 10% increase in our cost of lead would have increased our cost of goods sold by approximately $18 million and $36 million, in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019.
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks
We manufacture and assemble our products globally in the Americas, EMEA and Asia.
Approximately 50% of our sales and expenses are transacted in foreign currencies.
Our sales revenue, production costs, profit margins and competitive position are affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we manufacture or purchase goods relative to the strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold.
Additionally, as we report our financial statements in U.S. dollars, our financial results are affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we have operations relative to the strength of the U.S. dollar.
The principal foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the Euro, Swiss franc, British pound, Polish zloty, Chinese renminbi and Mexican peso.
We quantify and monitor our global foreign currency exposures.
Our largest foreign currency exposure is from the purchase and conversion of U.S. dollar based lead costs into local currencies in Europe.
Additionally, we have currency exposures from intercompany financing and intercompany and third party trade transactions.
On a selective basis, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts and purchase option
contracts to reduce the impact from the volatility of currency movements; however, we cannot be certain that foreign currency fluctuations will not impact our operations in the future.
We hedge approximately 10% - 15% of the nominal amount of our known foreign exchange transactional exposures.
We primarily enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to reduce the earnings and cash flow impact of the variation of non-functional currency denominated receivables and payables.
The vast majority of such contracts are for a period not extending beyond one year.
Gains and losses resulting from hedging instruments offset the foreign exchange gains or losses on the underlying assets and liabilities being hedged.
The maturities of the forward exchange contracts generally coincide with the settlement dates of the related transactions.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are recognized in the same period as gains and losses on the hedged items.
We also selectively hedge anticipated transactions that are subject to foreign exchange exposure, primarily with foreign currency exchange contracts, which are designated as cash flow hedges in accordance with Topic 815 - Derivatives and Hedging.
At September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, we estimate that an unfavorable 10% movement in the exchange rates would have adversely changed our hedge valuations by approximately $2.5 million and $3.8 million, respectively.
Agreement to Acquire Alpha Group
On October 29, 2018, EnerSys entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with AlphaTec Ltd. (the “ATS Seller”), the sole shareholder of Alpha Technologies Services, Inc. (“ATS”); Alpha Innovations Ltd., Radiant Energy Systems Ltd. and AlphaTec Ltd. (collectively, the “ATL Sellers” and together with the ATS Seller, the “Sellers” or “Alpha”), the shareholders of Alpha Technologies Ltd. (“ATL”); and Fortis Advisors LLC, as seller representative.
Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, EnerSys (through one or more wholly owned subsidiaries) will acquire all issued and outstanding shares of ATS and ATL, and will acquire substantially all of the assets of Alpha Technologies Inc. and certain assets of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc. and other affiliates of ATS and ATL, in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Restructuring Agreements (such stock and asset acquisitions being collectively, the “Transaction”).
Capitalized terms used, but undefined herein, have the meanings ascribed to them in the Purchase Agreement.
Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the total consideration for the Transaction is $750 million, which consists of $650 million in cash, to be funded using existing cash and credit facilities, and $100 million in shares of our common stock, at a per share price based on the thirty-day volume weighted average stock price of our common stock at the closing of the Transaction (the “Closing VWAP”).
The equity component of total consideration may be decreased (and the cash component correspondingly increased) (i) at the election of the Sellers if the Closing VWAP is greater than $95.00, or (ii) at the election of EnerSys if the Closing VWAP is less than $65.00.
Assuming no adjustment in the mix of total consideration based on the Closing VWAP, EnerSys common stock issued at the closing of the Transactions is expected to represent approximately 3% of its issued and outstanding shares.
Upon the closing of the Transaction, EnerSys will enter into five-year Non-Compete and Restrictive Covenant Agreements with Fred Kaiser, the owner of ATS and ATL, and Grace Borsari, the owner of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc.
The Transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, including the receipt of governmental regulatory approvals and the proper conveyance of all required closing deliverables.
The Transaction is expected to close within thirty (30) to sixty (60) days of signing, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions.
