ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of EnerSys.
EnerSys and its representatives may, from time to time, make written or verbal forward-looking statements, including statements contained in EnerSys’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and its reports to stockholders.
Generally, the inclusion of the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “future,” “intend,” “estimate,” “will,” “plans,” or the negative of such terms and similar expressions identify statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that are intended to come within the safe harbor protection provided by those sections.
All statements addressing operating performance, events, or developments that EnerSys expects or anticipates will occur in the future, including statements relating to sales growth, earnings or earnings per share growth, and market share, as well as statements expressing optimism or pessimism about future operating results, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act.
The forward-looking statements are and will be based on management’s then-current beliefs and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance and on information currently available to management, and are applicable only as of the dates of such statements.
Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
Although we do not make forward-looking statements unless we believe we have a reasonable basis for doing so, we cannot guarantee their accuracy.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to a number of uncertainties and risks, including the risks described in the Company’s 2019 Annual Report  on Form 10-K (the “2019 Annual Report”) and other unforeseen risks.
You should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
These statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, even if subsequently made available by us on our website or otherwise, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including the following factors:
•general cyclical patterns of the industries in which our customers operate;
•the extent to which we cannot control our fixed and variable costs;
•the raw materials in our products may experience significant fluctuations in market price and availability;
•certain raw materials constitute hazardous materials that may give rise to costly environmental and safety claims;
•legislation regarding the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in our products;
•risks involved in our operations such as disruption of markets, changes in import and export laws, environmental regulations, currency restrictions and local currency exchange rate fluctuations;
•our ability to raise our selling prices to our customers when our product costs increase;
•the extent to which we are able to efficiently utilize our global manufacturing facilities and optimize our capacity;
•general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate;
•competitiveness of the battery markets and other energy solutions for industrial applications throughout the world;
•our timely development of competitive new products and product enhancements in a changing environment and the acceptance of such products and product enhancements by customers;
•our ability to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property, technology and brand names;
•litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we might be subject;
•our expectations concerning indemnification obligations;
•changes in our market share in the geographic business segments where we operate;
•our ability to implement our cost reduction initiatives successfully and improve our profitability;
•quality problems associated with our products;
•our ability to implement business strategies, including our acquisition strategy, manufacturing expansion and restructuring plans;
•our acquisition strategy may not be successful in locating advantageous targets;
•our ability to successfully integrate any assets, liabilities, customers, systems and management personnel we acquire into our operations and our ability to realize related revenue synergies, strategic gains, and cost savings may be significantly harder to achieve, if at all, or may take longer to achieve;
•potential goodwill impairment charges, future impairment charges and fluctuations in the fair values of reporting units or of assets in the event projected financial results are not achieved within expected time frames;
•our debt and debt service requirements which may restrict our operational and financial flexibility, as well as imposing unfavorable interest and financing costs;
•our ability to maintain our existing credit facilities or obtain satisfactory new credit facilities;
•adverse changes in our short and long-term debt levels under our credit facilities;
•our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on our variable-rate debt;
•our ability to attract and retain qualified management and personnel;
•our ability to maintain good relations with labor unions;
•credit risk associated with our customers, including risk of insolvency and bankruptcy;
•our ability to successfully recover in the event of a disaster affecting our infrastructure;
•terrorist acts or acts of war, could cause damage or disruption to our operations, our suppliers, channels to market or customers, or could cause costs to increase, or create political or economic instability; and
•the operation, capacity and security of our information systems and infrastructure.
This list of factors that may affect future performance is illustrative, but by no means exhaustive.
Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty.
In the following discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition, certain financial measures may be considered “non-GAAP financial measures” under Securities and Exchange Commission rules.
These rules require supplemental explanation and reconciliation, which is provided in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
EnerSys’ management uses the non-GAAP measures “primary working capital” and “primary working capital percentage” in its evaluation of business segment cash flow and financial position performance.
These disclosures have limitations as an analytical tool, should not be viewed as a substitute for cash flow determined in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the Company’s results as reported under GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented by other companies.
Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
Overview
EnerSys (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is the world’s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries.
We also manufacture, market and distribute products such as battery chargers, power equipment, battery accessories, and outdoor cabinet enclosures.
Additionally, we provide related aftermarket and customer-support services for our products.
We market our products globally to over 10,000 customers in more than 100 countries through a network of distributors, independent representatives and our internal sales force.
•Americas, which includes North and South America, with our segment headquarters in Reading, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.;
•EMEA, which includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa, with our segment headquarters in Zug, Switzerland; and
•Asia, which includes Asia, Australia and Oceania, with our segment headquarters in Singapore.
We did not change our reporting segments this quarter as previously disclosed.
We are continuing to make our evaluation based on more current information.
Alpha Acquisition
On December 7, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding common stock of Alpha Technologies Services, Inc. (“ATS”) and Alpha Technologies Ltd. (“ATL”), resulting in ATS and ATL becoming wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company (the “share purchase”).
Additionally, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Alpha Technologies Inc. and certain assets of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc. and other affiliates of ATS and ATL (all such sellers, together with ATS and ATL, “Alpha”), in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of certain restructuring agreements (collectively, the “asset acquisition” and together with the share purchase, the “acquisition”).
Based in Bellingham, Washington, Alpha is a global industry leader in the comprehensive commercial-grade energy solutions for broadband, telecom, renewable, industrial and traffic customers around the world.
The initial purchase consideration for the acquisition was $750.0 million of which $650.0 million was paid in cash and the balance was settled by issuing 1,177,630 shares of EnerSys common stock.
These shares were issued out of the Company's treasury stock and were valued at $84.92 per share, which was based on the thirty-day volume weighted average stock price of the Company’s common stock at closing, in accordance with the purchase agreement.
The 1,177,630 shares had a closing date fair value of $93.3 million, based upon the December 7, 2018 closing date spot rate of $79.20.
The total purchase consideration, consisting of cash paid of $650.0 million, shares valued at $93.3 million and adjustment for working capital (due from seller of $0.8 million) was $742.5 million.
 The results of operations of Alpha have been included in the Company’s Americas segment.
Economic Climate
Recent indicators continue to suggest a mixed trend in economic activity among the different geographical regions.
North America's experiencing moderate economic growth while EMEA's economic growth is slow.
Our Asia region continues to grow faster than any other region in which we do business.
Volatility of Commodities and Foreign Currencies
Our most significant commodity and foreign currency exposures are related to lead and the Euro, respectively.
Historically, volatility of commodity costs and foreign currency exchange rates have caused large swings in our production costs.
As the global economic climate changes, we anticipate that our commodity costs and foreign currency exposures may continue to fluctuate as they have in the past several years.
Customer Pricing
Our selling prices fluctuated during the last several years to offset the volatile cost of commodities.
Approximately 30% of our revenue is currently subject to agreements that adjust pricing to a market-based index for lead.
During fiscal 2019, our selling prices rose in response to increased lead and other commodity costs.
Lead prices rose for the most part of fiscal 2018, peaked in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and then declined sequentially in every quarter in fiscal 2019.
Based on current commodity markets, we will likely see year over year benefits from declining commodity prices, with some related reduction in our selling prices in the upcoming year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $262 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $568 million at June 30, 2019 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.
In fiscal 2018, we entered into a new credit facility (“2017 Credit Facility”) that consisted of a $600 million senior secured revolving credit facility (“2017 Revolver”) and a $150 million senior secured term loan (“2017 Term Loan”) with a maturity date of September 30, 2022.
In fiscal 2019, we amended the 2017 Credit Facility (as amended, the “Amended Credit Facility”).
The Amended Credit Facility consists of $449.1 million senior secured term loans (the “Amended 2017 Term Loan”), including a CAD 133.0 million ($99.1 million) term loan and a $700.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Amended 2017 Revolver”).
The amendment resulted in an increase of the 2017 Term Loan and the 2017 Revolver by $299.1 million and $100.0 million, respectively.
A substantial majority of the Company’s cash and investments are held by foreign subsidiaries and are considered to be indefinitely reinvested and expected to be utilized to fund local operating activities, capital expenditure requirements and acquisitions.
The Company believes that it has sufficient sources of domestic and foreign liquidity.
We believe that our strong capital structure and liquidity affords us access to capital for future acquisition and stock repurchase opportunities and continued dividend payments.
Results of Operations
Net Sales
Net sales increased $109.3 million or 16.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
This increase was the result of a 22% increase due to the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 3% decrease in organic volume, a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact and a 1% decrease in pricing.
Segment sales
The Americas segment’s net sales increased $124.6 million or 31.7% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 39% increase from the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 6% decrease in organic volume and a combined 1% decrease in pricing and foreign currency translation impact.
The EMEA segment’s net sales decreased $7.3 million or 3.5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 5% decrease due to foreign currency translation impact and a 2% decrease in pricing, partially offset by a 3% increase in organic volume.
The Asia segment’s net sales decreased $8.0 million or 11.7% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 8% decrease in organic volume and a 4% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
Product line sales
Net sales of our reserve power products in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $111.8 million or 34.5% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The increase was primarily due to a 47% increase from the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 10% decrease in organic volume and a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
The decrease in organic volume is primarily from the reclassification of sales made to Alpha as intercompany rather than external sales, in the prior year quarter, and the conclusion of a large enclosure order a year ago.
Net sales of our motive power products segment in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased by $2.5 million or 0.7% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The decrease was primarily due to a 2% decrease each in pricing and foreign currency translation impact, partially offset by a 3% increase in organic volume.
Gross Profit
Gross profit increased $36.2 million or 21.9% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Gross profit, as a percentage of net sales, increased 120 basis points in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
This increase during the current quarter in the gross profit margin is largely a function of commodity costs relative to pricing, as well the impact of Alpha's higher margins, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs.
Operating Items
Operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, increased 190 basis points in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact of the foreign currency translation, the increase in dollars reflects the inclusion of Alpha and the additional investments in new product development.
Selling expenses, our main component of operating expenses, were 45.1% of total operating expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to 49.5% of total operating expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Restructuring and other exit charges
Included in our first quarter of fiscal 2020 operating results are restructuring charges of $0.6 million in the Americas, $0.6 million in EMEA and $0.5 million in Asia, all of which relate to improving operational efficiencies in the respective regions.
Also included in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 operating results are non-cash exit charges of $0.7 million in EMEA, relating to the closure of our facility in Targovishte, Bulgaria.
Included in our first quarter of fiscal 2019 operating results are restructuring charges of $1.2 million in EMEA and $0.6 million in Asia.
The charges in the EMEA relate to improving efficiencies of our general operations, while charges in Asia relate to a strategic shift in our India operations from reserve power production to motive power production.
Operating Earnings
NM = not meaningful
Operating earnings increased $4.1 million or 6.5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Operating earnings, as a percentage of net sales, decreased 70 basis points in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Americas segment's operating earnings, excluding restructuring charges, decreased 170 basis points, in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The decrease in the first quarter is primarily due to our ERP execution challenges at our Richmond, Kentucky, facility which continued to result in missed sales opportunities and higher manufacturing costs.
This negative impact was partially offset by the impact of lower commodity costs and Alpha's contribution to operating earnings of $17 million or 11.4% of its sales.
The EMEA segment's operating earnings, excluding restructuring and other exit charges, decreased 50 basis points in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
EMEA suffered from a decrease in pricing and unfavorable mix.
The Asia segment's operating earnings, excluding restructuring charges, decreased 110 basis points in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to lower organic volume.
Interest Expense
Interest expense of $10.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 (net of interest income of $0.5 million) was $4.4 million higher than the interest expense of $6.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 (net of interest income of $0.5 million).
The increase in interest expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was primarily due to higher interest rates and higher average debt.
Our average debt outstanding was $1,052.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to $612.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The increased borrowings were primarily to fund the Alpha acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Included in interest expense are non-cash charges for deferred financing fees of $0.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to $0.3 million, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Other (Income) Expense, Net
NM = not meaningful
Other (income) expense, net in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was income of $1.2 million compared to expense of $0.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Foreign currency impact resulted in a gain of $1.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to a foreign currency gain of $0.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Earnings Before Income Taxes
As a result of the above, earnings before income taxes in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $1.3 million, or 2.2%, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Income Tax Expense
The Company’s income tax provision consists of federal, state and foreign income taxes.
The tax provision for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 was based on the estimated effective tax rates applicable for the full years ending March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, respectively, after giving effect to items specifically related to the interim periods.
Our effective income tax rate with respect to any period may be volatile based on the mix of income in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate, change in tax laws and the amount of our consolidated income before taxes.
On December 22, 2017 the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”) was signed into law.
In fiscal 2019, we completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Tax Act and recognized a one-time transition tax of $84.0 million, inclusive of uncertain tax positions.
On June 14, 2019 final regulations were issued for items relating to the Tax Act.
As a result, in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we recognized the uncertain tax position related to the one-time transition tax liability of $11.5 million.
This did not result in a change to the transition tax liability of $84.0 million, previously recorded in fiscal 2019.
The consolidated effective income tax rates for the first quarters of fiscal 2020 and 2019 were 17.0% and 19.7%, respectively.
The rate decrease in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019 is primarily due to changes in the mix of earnings among tax jurisdictions.
Foreign income as a percentage of worldwide income is estimated to be 64% for fiscal 2020 compared to 66% for fiscal 2019.
The foreign effective income tax rates for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 were 11.5% and 11.8%, respectively.
The rate decrease compared to the prior year period is primarily due to changes in the mix of earnings among tax jurisdictions.
Income from the Company's Swiss subsidiary comprised a substantial portion of our overall foreign mix of income and is taxed at an effective income tax rate of approximately 6% in both the current and prior year quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies from those discussed under the caption “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2019 Annual
Report.
The adoption of ASC 842 did not result in a material change to our current critical accounting estimates.
See Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, for further information on the adoption of ASC 842.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Operating activities provided cash of $30.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to $25.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, cash provided by operating activities was primarily from net earnings of $48.6 million, depreciation and amortization of $20.7 million, stock-based compensation of $3.9 million and non-cash interest of $0.4 million.
Cash provided by earnings as adjusted for non-cash items were partially offset by the increase in primary working capital of $23.6 million, net of currency translation changes.
Accrued expenses decreased by $16.3 million primarily for payments of $7.3 million related to the German competition authority matter (See Note 10 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) and $6.1 million paid to the seller in connection with the Alpha acquisition, for certain reimbursable pre-acquisition items.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, cash provided by operating activities was primarily from net earnings of $46.0 million, depreciation and amortization of $13.7 million, stock-based compensation of $4.3 million, non-cash charges relating to write-off of assets of $1.1 million, non-cash interest of $0.3 million and provision for doubtful accounts of $0.3 million.
Cash provided by earnings as adjusted for non-cash items were partially offset by the increase in primary working capital of $26.6 million, net of currency translation changes, and a decrease in accrued expenses of $13.5 million, comprising primarily of incentives, interest, freight and professional services fees.
As explained in the discussion of our use of “non-GAAP financial measures,” we monitor the level and percentage of primary working capital to sales.
Primary working capital for this purpose is trade accounts receivable, plus inventories, minus trade accounts payable.
The resulting net amount is divided by the trailing three month net sales (annualized) to derive a primary working capital percentage.
Primary working capital was $838.6 million (yielding a primary working capital percentage of 26.9%) at June 30, 2019, $835.6 million (yielding a primary working capital percentage of 26.2%) at March 31, 2019 and $672.6 million at July 1, 2018 (yielding a primary working capital percentage of 25.1%).
The primary working capital percentage of 26.9% at June 30, 2019 is 70 basis points higher than that for March 31, 2019, and 180 basis points higher than that for the prior year period.
The increase in primary working capital compared to the prior year period is primarily due to the inclusion of the Alpha primary working capital components, while the increase from March 31, 2019 is due primarily to the build up of inventories.
Investing activities used cash of $17.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 which primarily consisted of capital expenditures relating to plant improvements.
Investing activities used cash of $15.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and primarily consisted of capital expenditures.
Financing activities used cash of $51.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we borrowed $95.0 million under the Amended 2017 Revolver and repaid $85.0 million of the Amended 2017 Revolver.
Repayment on the Amended 2017 Term Loan was $5.6 million and net payments on short-term debt were $19.5 million.
Treasury stock open market purchases were $23.0 million, payment of cash dividends to our stockholders were $7.5 million and payment of taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards were $6.1 million.
Financing activities provided cash of $8.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we borrowed $64.0 million under the 2017 Revolver and repaid $54.5 million.
Payment of cash dividends to our stockholders were $7.3 million and payment of taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards were $3.5 million.
Proceeds from stock options were $6.8 million and net borrowings on short-term debt were $3.0 million.
Currency translation had a positive impact of $1.5 million on our cash balance in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to a negative impact of $28.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, principal currencies in which we do business such as the Euro, Swiss franc, Polish zloty and Mexican peso strengthened versus the U.S. dollar.
As a result of the above, total cash and cash equivalents decreased by $37.1 million to $262.1 million, in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to a decrease by $9.6 million to $512.5 million, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
All obligations under our Amended Credit Facility are secured by, among other things, substantially all of our U.S. assets.
The Amended Credit Facility contains various covenants which, absent prepayment in full of the indebtedness and other obligations, or the receipt of waivers, limit our ability to conduct certain specified business transactions, buy or sell assets out of the ordinary course of business, engage in sale and leaseback transactions, pay dividends and take certain other actions.
There are no prepayment penalties on loans under this credit facility.
We are in compliance with all covenants and conditions under our credit agreement and our 5.00% Senior Notes due 2023.
We believe that we will continue to comply with these covenants and conditions, and that we have the financial resources and the capital available to fund the foreseeable organic growth in our business and to remain active in pursuing further acquisition opportunities.
See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2019 Annual Report and Note 12 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a detailed description of our debt.
Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments
A table of our obligations is contained in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations of our 2019 Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2019.
As of June 30, 2019, except for presentation changes resulting from the adoption of ASC 842 during the current quarter, we had no significant changes to our contractual obligations table contained in our 2019 Annual Report.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
 Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers
The following table summarizes the number of shares of common stock we purchased from participants in our equity incentive plans as well as repurchases of common stock authorized by the Board of Directors.
As provided by the Company’s equity incentive plans, (a) vested options outstanding may be exercised through surrender to the Company of option shares or vested options outstanding under the Company’s equity incentive plans to satisfy the applicable aggregate exercise price (and any withholding tax) required to be paid upon such exercise and (b) the withholding tax requirements related to the vesting and settlement of restricted stock units and market condition-based share units may be satisfied by the surrender of shares of the Company’s common stock.
Purchases of Equity Securities
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
ITEM 6.EXHIBITS
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
ENERSYS (Registrant)
 Michael J. Schmidtlein
 Chief Financial Officer
