CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of EnerSys.
EnerSys and its representatives may, from time to time, make written or verbal forward-looking statements, including statements contained in EnerSys’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and its reports to stockholders.
Generally, the inclusion of the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “future,” “intend,” “estimate,” “will,” “plans,” or the negative of such terms and similar expressions identify statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that are intended to come within the safe harbor protection provided by those sections.
All statements addressing operating performance, events, or developments that EnerSys expects or anticipates will occur in the future, including statements relating to sales growth, earnings or earnings per share growth, and market share, as well as statements expressing optimism or pessimism about future operating results, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act.
The forward-looking statements are and will be based on management’s then-current beliefs and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance and on information currently available to management, and are applicable only as of the dates of such statements.
Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
Although we do not make forward-looking statements unless we believe we have a reasonable basis for doing so, we cannot guarantee their accuracy.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to a number of uncertainties and risks, including the risks described in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the "2017 Annual Report") and other unforeseen risks.
You should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
These statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, even if subsequently made available by us on our website or otherwise, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including the following factors:
This list of factors that may affect future performance is illustrative, but by no means exhaustive.
Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty.
