ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of EnerSys.
EnerSys and its representatives may, from time to time, make written or verbal forward-looking statements, including statements contained in EnerSys’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and its reports to stockholders.
Generally, the inclusion of the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “future,” “intend,” “estimate,” “will,” “plans,” or the negative of such terms and similar expressions identify statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that are intended to come within the safe harbor protection provided by those sections.
All statements addressing operating performance, events, or developments that EnerSys expects or anticipates will occur in the future, including statements relating to sales growth, earnings or earnings per share growth, and market share, as well as statements expressing optimism or pessimism about future operating results, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act.
The forward-looking statements are and will be based on management’s then-current beliefs and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance and on information currently available to management, and are applicable only as of the dates of such statements.
Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
Although we do not make forward-looking statements unless we believe we have a reasonable basis for doing so, we cannot guarantee their accuracy.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to a number of uncertainties and risks, including the risks described in the Company’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the “2019 Annual Report”) and other unforeseen risks.
You should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
These statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, even if subsequently made available by us on our website or otherwise, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including the following factors:
•general cyclical patterns of the industries in which our customers operate;
•the extent to which we cannot control our fixed and variable costs;
•the raw materials in our products may experience significant fluctuations in market price and availability;
•certain raw materials constitute hazardous materials that may give rise to costly environmental and safety claims;
•legislation regarding the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in our products;
•risks involved in our operations such as disruption of markets, changes in import and export laws, environmental regulations, currency restrictions and local currency exchange rate fluctuations;
•our ability to raise our selling prices to our customers when our product costs increase;
•the extent to which we are able to efficiently utilize our global manufacturing facilities and optimize our capacity;
•general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate;
•competitiveness of the battery markets and other energy solutions for industrial applications throughout the world;
•our timely development of competitive new products and product enhancements in a changing environment and the acceptance of such products and product enhancements by customers;
•our ability to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property, technology and brand names;
•litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we might be subject;
•our expectations concerning indemnification obligations;
•changes in our market share in the geographic business segments where we operate;
•our ability to implement our cost reduction initiatives successfully and improve our profitability;
•quality problems associated with our products;
•our ability to implement business strategies, including our acquisition strategy, manufacturing expansion and restructuring plans;
•our acquisition strategy may not be successful in locating advantageous targets;
•our ability to successfully integrate any assets, liabilities, customers, systems and management personnel we acquire into our operations and our ability to realize related revenue synergies, strategic gains, and cost savings may be significantly harder to achieve, if at all, or may take longer to achieve;
•potential goodwill impairment charges, future impairment charges and fluctuations in the fair values of reporting units or of assets in the event projected financial results are not achieved within expected time frames;
•our debt and debt service requirements which may restrict our operational and financial flexibility, as well as imposing unfavorable interest and financing costs;
•our ability to maintain our existing credit facilities or obtain satisfactory new credit facilities;
•adverse changes in our short and long-term debt levels under our credit facilities;
•our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on our variable-rate debt;
•our ability to attract and retain qualified management and personnel;
•our ability to maintain good relations with labor unions;
•credit risk associated with our customers, including risk of insolvency and bankruptcy;
•our ability to successfully recover in the event of a disaster affecting our infrastructure , supply chain, or our facilities, such as the Richmond, Kentucky facility, including, but not limited to, satisfactory resolution of insurance coverage and claims for both property damage, business interruption and other insurable losses, strategy for business interruption and revenue loss;
•terrorist acts or acts of war, could cause damage or disruption to our operations, our suppliers, channels to market or customers, or could cause costs to increase, or create political or economic instability; and
•the operation, capacity and security of our information systems and infrastructure.
This list of factors that may affect future performance is illustrative, but by no means exhaustive.
Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty.
In the following discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition, certain financial measures may be considered “non-GAAP financial measures” under Securities and Exchange Commission rules.
These rules require supplemental explanation and reconciliation, which is provided in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
EnerSys’ management uses the non-GAAP measures “primary working capital” and “primary working capital percentage” in its evaluation of business segment cash flow and financial position performance.
These disclosures have limitations as an analytical tool, should not be viewed as a substitute for cash flow determined in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the Company’s results as reported under GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented by other companies.
Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
Overview
EnerSys (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is the world’s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries.
We also manufacture, market and distribute products such as battery chargers, power equipment, battery accessories, and outdoor cabinet enclosures.
Additionally, we provide related aftermarket and customer-support services for our products.
We market our products globally to over 10,000 customers in more than 100 countries through a network of distributors, independent representatives and our internal sales force.
•Americas, which includes North and South America, with our segment headquarters in Reading, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.;
•EMEA, which includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa, with our segment headquarters in Zug, Switzerland; and
•Asia, which includes Asia, Australia and Oceania, with our segment headquarters in Singapore.
We did not change our reportable segments this quarter as previously disclosed.
We are continuing to make our evaluation based on more current information.
Alpha Acquisition
On December 7, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding common stock of Alpha Technologies Services, Inc. (“ATS”) and Alpha Technologies Ltd. (“ATL”), resulting in ATS and ATL becoming wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company (the “share purchase”).
Additionally, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Alpha Technologies Inc. and certain assets of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc. and other affiliates of ATS and ATL (all such sellers, together with ATS and ATL, “Alpha”), in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of certain restructuring agreements (collectively, the “asset acquisition” and together with the share purchase, the “acquisition”).
Based in Bellingham, Washington, Alpha is a global industry leader in the comprehensive commercial-grade energy solutions for broadband, telecom, renewable, industrial and traffic customers around the world.
The initial purchase consideration for the acquisition was $750.0 million of which $650.0 million was paid in cash and the balance was settled by issuing 1,177,630 shares of EnerSys common stock.
These shares were issued out of the Company's treasury stock and were valued at $84.92 per share, which was based on the thirty-day volume weighted average stock price of the Company’s common stock at closing, in accordance with the purchase agreement.
The 1,177,630 shares had a closing date fair value of $93.3 million, based upon the December 7, 2018 closing date spot rate of $79.20.
The total purchase consideration, consisting of cash paid of $650.0 million, shares valued at $93.3 million and adjustment for working capital (due from seller of $0.8 million) was $742.5 million.
 The results of operations of Alpha have been included in the Company’s Americas segment.
NorthStar Acquisition
On September 30, 2019, we completed the acquisition of NorthStar, headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, for $78.0 million in cash consideration and the assumption of $104.5 million in debt, which was funded using existing cash and credit facilities.
NorthStar, through its direct and indirect subsidiaries, manufactures and distributes thin plate pure lead (TPPL) batteries and battery enclosures.
Economic Climate
Recent indicators suggest a slowdown in economic activity among all the different geographical regions in which we do business.
Volatility of Commodities and Foreign Currencies
Our most significant commodity and foreign currency exposures are related to lead and the Euro, respectively.
Historically, volatility of commodity costs and foreign currency exchange rates have caused large swings in our production costs.
As the global economic climate changes, we anticipate that our commodity costs and foreign currency exposures may continue to fluctuate as they have in the past several years.
Customer Pricing
Our selling prices fluctuated during the last several years to offset the volatile cost of commodities.
Approximately 30% of our revenue is currently subject to agreements that adjust pricing to a market-based index for lead.
During fiscal 2019, our selling prices rose in response to increased lead and other commodity costs.
Lead prices rose for the most part of fiscal 2018, peaked in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and then declined sequentially in every quarter in fiscal 2019.
In the first half of our fiscal 2020, our selling prices declined in response to declining commodity costs.
Based on current commodity markets, we will likely see continued year over year benefits from declining commodity costs, with some related reduction in our selling prices in the upcoming year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $425 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $426 million at September 29, 2019 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.
A substantial majority of the Company’s cash and investments are held by foreign subsidiaries and are considered to be indefinitely reinvested and expected to be utilized to fund local operating activities, capital expenditure requirements and acquisitions.
The Company believes that it has sufficient sources of domestic and foreign liquidity.
We believe that our strong capital structure and liquidity affords us access to capital for future acquisition and stock repurchase opportunities and continued dividend payments.
Results of Operations
Net Sales
Net sales increased $101.6 million or 15.4% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
This increase was the result of a 22% increase due to the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 4% decrease in organic volume, a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact and a 1% decrease in pricing.
Net sales increased $210.9 million or 15.8% in the six months of fiscal 2020 as compared to the six months of fiscal 2019.
This increase was the result of a 22% increase due to the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 3% decrease in organic volume, a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact and a 1% decrease in pricing.
Segment sales
The Americas segment’s net sales increased $136.3 million or 35.1% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 38% increase from the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 1% decrease each in organic volume, pricing and foreign currency translation impact.
Net sales increased $260.9 or 33.4% in the six months of fiscal 2020 as compared to the six months of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 38% increase from the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 3% decrease in organic volume and a 1% decrease each in pricing and foreign currency translation impact.
The EMEA segment’s net sales decreased $21.2 million or 10.4% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 5% decrease in foreign currency translation impact, a 4% decrease in organic volume and a 1% decrease in pricing.
Net sales decreased $28.5 or 6.9% in the six months of fiscal 2020 as compared to the six months of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 5% decrease due to foreign currency translation impact and a 1% decrease each in organic volume and pricing.
The Asia segment’s net sales decreased $13.5 million or 19.9% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 17% decrease in organic volume and a 3% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
Net sales decreased $21.5 or 15.8% in the six months of fiscal 2020 as compared to the six months of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 12% decrease in organic volume and a 4% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
Product line sales
Net sales of our reserve power products in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $113.4 million or 36.2% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The increase was primarily due to a 46% increase from the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 7% decrease in organic volume, a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact and a 1% decrease in pricing.
The decrease in organic volume is primarily from the deferral of spending by telecom and broadband customers and the conclusion of a large enclosure order a year ago.
Net sales increased $225.2 or 35.4% in the six months of fiscal 2020 as compared to the six months of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 47% increase from the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 9% decrease in organic volume, a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact and a 1% decrease in pricing.
Net sales of our motive power products segment in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased by $11.8 million or 3.4% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The decrease was primarily due to a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact and a 1% decrease in pricing.
Net sales decreased $14.3 or 2.1% in the six months of fiscal 2020 as compared to the six months of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 3% decrease in foreign currency translation impact and a 1% decrease in pricing, partially offset by a 2% increase in organic volume.
Gross Profit
Gross profit increased $36.4 million or 22.7% in the second quarter and increased $72.6 million or 22.3% in the six months of fiscal 2020 compared to the comparable periods of fiscal 2019.
Gross profit, as a percentage of net sales, increased 150 basis points and 140 basis points in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2020 compared to the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019, respectively.
This increase in the gross profit margin in both the second quarter and six months, is largely a function of declines in commodity costs relative to pricing, as well as the impact of Alpha's higher margins, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs.
Operating Items
NM = not meaningful
Operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, increased 280 basis points and 240 basis points in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2020, respectively, compared to the comparable periods of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact of the foreign currency translation, the increase in dollars reflects the inclusion of Alpha and the additional investments in new product development.
Selling expenses, our main component of operating expenses, were 44.3% and 44.7% of total operating expenses in the second quarter and six months, respectively, compared to 47.9% and 48.7% of total operating expenses in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019.
Restructuring, Exit and Other Charges
Included in our second quarter of fiscal 2020 operating results are restructuring charges of $0.5 million in the Americas and $0.3 million in Asia, all of which relate to improving operational efficiencies in the respective regions.
Also included in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 operating results are non-cash exit charges of $0.7 million in EMEA, relating to the closure of our facility in Targovishte, Bulgaria.
In keeping with our strategy of exiting the manufacture of batteries for diesel-electric submarines, during the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we sold certain licenses and assets for $2.0 million and recorded a net gain of $0.9 million, which is reported as other exit charges.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we wrote off $5.5 million of assets at our Kentucky and Tennessee plants, as a result of our strategic product mix shift from traditional flooded batteries to maintenance free lead acid and lithium batteries.
Included in our second quarter of fiscal 2019 operating results are restructuring charges of $1.0 million in EMEA and $0.1 million in Asia.
The charges in the EMEA relate to improving efficiencies of our general operations, while charges in Asia relate to a strategic shift in our India operations from reserve power production to motive power production.
Richmond, Kentucky Plant Fire
On September 19, 2019, a fire broke out in the battery formation area of our Richmond, Kentucky motive power production facility.
We maintain insurance policies for both property damage and business interruption and are in the early stages of assessing damage.
Based on our initial assessment, we have written off $1.9 million for the damage caused to our fixed assets and inventories.
We also recorded a receivable of $1.9 million, related to our initial claims for recovery from our property and casualty insurance carriers.
Operating Earnings
NM = not meaningful
NM = not meaningful
Operating earnings decreased $4.6 million or 7.3% and decreased $0.5 million or 0.4% in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2020, respectively, compared to the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019.
Operating earnings, as a percentage of net sales, decreased 190 basis points and 140 basis points in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2020, respectively, compared to the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019, primarily due to ERP execution challenges at our Richmond, Kentucky, facility which continued to result in missed sales opportunities and higher manufacturing costs as well as the decline in our organic volume across all the regions.
The Americas segment's operating earnings, excluding restructuring, exit and other charges, decreased 250 basis points and 210 basis points in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2020, respectively, compared to the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019.
The decrease
is primarily due to ERP execution challenges at our Richmond, Kentucky, facility which continued to result in missed sales opportunities, tariffs and higher manufacturing costs.
This negative impact was partially offset by the impact of lower commodity costs and Alpha's contribution to operating earnings of $18 million or 12.6% of its sales for the second quarter and $35 million or 11.8% of its sales for the six months of fiscal 2020.
The EMEA segment's operating earnings, excluding restructuring and other exit charges, increased 50 basis points in the second quarter and remained flat in the six months of fiscal 2020, compared to the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019 due to lower commodity costs offset by lower pricing.
The Asia segment's operating earnings, excluding restructuring charges, decreased 430 basis points and 260 basis points in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2020, respectively, compared to the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019 primarily due to lower organic volume caused by the slowdown in the Chinese economy.
Interest Expense
Interest expense of $10.1 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 (net of interest income of $0.6 million) was $3.7 million higher than the interest expense of $6.4 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 (net of interest income of $0.5 million).
Interest expense of $21.0 million in the six months of fiscal 2020 (net of interest income of $1.1 million) was $8.1 million higher than the interest expense of $12.9 million in the six months of fiscal 2019 (net of interest income of $1.4 million).
The increase in interest expense in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2020 is primarily due to higher average debt.
Our average debt outstanding was $1,059.8 million in both the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2020 compared to $628.3 million and $619.8 million in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019.
The increased borrowings were primarily to fund the Alpha acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Included in interest expense are non-cash charges for deferred financing fees of $0.4 million and $0.7 million in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2020 compared to $0.3 million and $0.6 million, in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019.
Other (Income) Expense, Net
NM = not meaningful
Other (income) expense, net in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 was expense of $0.2 million compared to income of $1.3 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Other (income) expense, net in the six months of fiscal 2020 was income of $1.0 million compared to income of $0.9 million in the six months of fiscal 2019.
Foreign currency impact resulted in a loss of $0.2 million and a gain of $1.1 million, in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2020, respectively, compared to a foreign currency gain of $1.8 million and $2.2 million in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019.
Earnings Before Income Taxes
As a result of the above, earnings before income taxes in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased $9.8 million, or 16.9%, compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and decreased $8.5 million or 7.4%, in the six months of fiscal 2020, compared to the six months of fiscal 2019.
Income Tax (Benefit) Expense
NM = not meaningful
The Company’s income tax provision consists of federal, state and foreign income taxes.
The tax provision for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 was based on the estimated effective tax rates applicable for the full years ending March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, respectively, after giving effect to items specifically related to the interim periods.
Our effective income tax rate with respect to any period may be volatile based on the mix of income in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate, change in tax laws and the amount of our consolidated income before taxes.
On May 19, 2019, a public referendum held in Switzerland approved the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV (Old-Age and Survivors Insurance) Financing (TRAF) as adopted by the Swiss Federal Parliament on September 28, 2018.
The Swiss tax reform measures are effective January 1, 2020.
Certain provisions of the TRAF were enacted during the current quarter.
Significant changes in the tax reform include the abolishment of preferential tax regimes for holding companies, domicile companies and mixed companies at the cantonal level.
The transitional provisions of the TRAF allow companies to elect tax basis adjustments to fair value, which is used for tax depreciation and amortization purposes resulting in a deduction over the transitional period.
We recorded a deferred tax asset of $21.0 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2020, related to the amortizable goodwill, subject to final negotiations with the Swiss federal and cantonal tax authority.
The consolidated effective income tax rates for the second quarters of fiscal 2020 and 2019 were (29.5)% and 18.6%, respectively and were (4.0)% and 19.1% for the six months of fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively.
The rate decrease in the second quarter and six months of fiscal
2020 compared to the comparable prior year periods is primarily due to Swiss tax reform and changes in the mix of earnings among tax jurisdictions.
Foreign income as a percentage of worldwide income is estimated to be 72% for fiscal 2020 compared to 68% for fiscal 2019.
The foreign effective income tax rates for the six months of fiscal 2020 and 2019 were (2.4)% and 11.1%, respectively.
The rate decrease compared to the prior year period is primarily due to Swiss tax reform and changes in the mix of earnings among tax jurisdictions.
Income from the Company's Swiss subsidiary comprised a substantial portion of our overall foreign mix of income and is taxed at an effective income tax rate of approximately 6% in both the current and prior year quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies from those discussed under the caption “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2019 Annual Report.
The adoption of ASC 842 did not result in a material change to our current critical accounting estimates.
See Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, for further information on the adoption of ASC 842.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash Flow Analysis
Operating activities provided cash of $105.1 million in the six months of fiscal 2020 compared to $84.0 million in the comparable period of fiscal 2019.
In the six months of fiscal 2020, cash provided by operating activities was primarily from net earnings of $111.3 million, depreciation and amortization of $41.1 million, non-cash charges relating to restructuring, exit and other charges of $10.0 million, stock-based compensation of $8.9 million, provision for doubtful debts of $3.2 million and non-cash interest of $0.8 million, partially offset by deferred taxes of $21.0 million resulting from the Swiss Tax Reform.
Cash provided by earnings adjusted for non-cash items were partially offset by the increase in primary working capital of $6.9 million, net of currency translation changes.
Accrued expenses decreased by $18.5 million primarily for payments of $7.3 million related to the German competition authority matter (See Note 10 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) and $6.1 million paid to the seller in connection with the Alpha acquisition, for certain reimbursable pre-acquisition items.
Prepaid and other current assets increased by $18.2 million, primarily due to contract assets of $8.0 million, $4.0 million receivable from the Seller (Alpha) and insurance receivable of $1.9 million relating to the Richmond plant claim.
Other liabilities decreased by $10.0 million due to income taxes.
In the six months of fiscal 2019, cash provided by operating activities was primarily from net earnings of $93.4 million, depreciation and amortization of $27.3 million, stock-based compensation of $9.1 million, non-cash charges relating to write-off of assets of $1.1 million, non-cash interest of $0.6 million and provision for deferred taxes of $0.8 million.
Cash provided by earnings as adjusted for non-cash items were partially offset by the increase in primary working capital of $22.3 million, net of currency translation changes, and an outflow of $4.2 million relating to prepaid assets and $20.6 million relating to accrued expenses for income tax payments.
As explained in the discussion of our use of “non-GAAP financial measures,” we monitor the level and percentage of primary working capital to sales.
Primary working capital for this purpose is trade accounts receivable, plus inventories, minus trade accounts payable.
The resulting net amount is divided by the trailing three month net sales (annualized) to derive a primary working capital percentage.
Primary working capital was $815.3 million (yielding a primary working capital percentage of 26.7%) at September 29, 2019, $835.6 million (yielding a primary working capital percentage of 26.2%) at March 31, 2019 and $666.0 million at September 30, 2018 (yielding a primary working capital percentage of 25.2%).
The primary working capital percentage of 26.7% at September 29, 2019 is 50 basis points higher than that for March 31, 2019, and 150 basis points higher than that for the prior year period.
The increase in primary working capital compared to the prior year period is primarily due to the inclusion of the Alpha primary working capital components, while the increase of 50 basis points increase from March 31, 2019 is primarily due to the build up of inventories partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable and payable, due to lower seasonal sales.
Investing activities used cash of $40.7 million in the six months of fiscal 2020 which primarily consisted of capital expenditures of $43.4 million, relating to plant improvements.
Investing activities used cash of $35.3 million in the six months of fiscal 2019 and primarily consisted of capital expenditures relating to plant improvements.
Financing activities provided cash of $68.8 million in the six months of fiscal 2020.
During the six months of fiscal 2020, we borrowed $285.0 million under the Amended 2017 Revolver and repaid $135.0 million of the Amended 2017 Revolver.
Repayment on the Amended 2017 Term Loan was $5.6 million and net payments on short-term debt were $20.0 million.
Treasury stock open market purchases were $34.6 million, payment of cash dividends to our stockholders were $14.9 million and payment of taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards were $6.2 million.
Financing activities provided cash of $6.8 million in the six months of fiscal 2019.
During the six months of fiscal 2019, we borrowed $84.5 million under the 2017 Revolver and repaid $65.0 million.
Payment of cash dividends to our stockholders were $14.7 million and payment of taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards were $3.4 million.
Proceeds from stock options were $8.3 million and net payments on short-term debt were $2.9 million.
Currency translation had a negative impact of $7.5 million on our cash balance in the six months of fiscal 2020 compared to a negative impact of $32.5 million in the six months of fiscal 2019.
In the six months of fiscal 2020, principal currencies in which we do business such as the Euro, Swiss franc, Polish zloty and British Pound weakened versus the U.S. dollar.
As a result of the above, total cash and cash equivalents increased by $125.6 million to $424.8 million, in the six months of fiscal 2020 compared to an increase by $23.1 million to $545.2 million, in the comparable period of fiscal 2019.
Debt and Compliance with Debt Covenants
In fiscal 2019, we amended our then existing credit facility (as amended, the “Amended Credit Facility”).
The Amended Credit Facility consists of $449.1 million senior secured term loans (the “Amended 2017 Term Loan”), including a CAD 133.0 million ($99.1 million) term loan and a $700.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Amended 2017 Revolver”).
The Amended Credit Facility has a maturity date of September 30, 2022.
During the current quarter, we borrowed on the Amended 2017 Revolver and repatriated additional funds from our international subsidiaries to finance the acquisition of NorthStar, which was completed subsequent to the end of the quarter.
All obligations under our Amended Credit Facility are secured by, among other things, substantially all of our U.S. assets.
The Amended Credit Facility contains various covenants which, absent prepayment in full of the indebtedness and other obligations, or the receipt of waivers, limit our ability to conduct certain specified business transactions, buy or sell assets out of the ordinary course of business, engage in sale and leaseback transactions, pay dividends and take certain other actions.
There are no prepayment penalties on loans under this credit facility.
We are in compliance with all covenants and conditions under our credit agreement and our 5.00% Senior Notes due 2023.
We believe that we will continue to comply with these covenants and conditions, and that we have the financial resources and the capital available to fund the foreseeable organic growth in our business and to remain active in pursuing further acquisition opportunities.
See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2019 Annual Report and Note 12 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a detailed description of our debt.
Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments
A table of our obligations is contained in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations of our 2019 Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2019.
As of September 29, 2019, except for presentation changes resulting from the adoption of ASC 842 effective our first quarter of fiscal 2020, we had no significant changes to our contractual obligations table contained in our 2019 Annual Report.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
 Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers
The following table summarizes the number of shares of common stock we purchased from participants in our equity incentive plans as well as repurchases of common stock authorized by the Board of Directors.
As provided by the Company’s equity incentive plans, (a) vested options outstanding may be exercised through surrender to the Company of option shares or vested options outstanding under the Company’s equity incentive plans to satisfy the applicable aggregate exercise price (and any withholding tax) required to be paid upon such exercise and (b) the withholding tax requirements related to the vesting and settlement of restricted stock units and market condition-based share units may be satisfied by the surrender of shares of the Company’s common stock.
Purchases of Equity Securities
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
ITEM 6.EXHIBITS
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
ENERSYS (Registrant)
 Michael J. Schmidtlein
 Chief Financial Officer
