ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of EnerSys.
EnerSys and its representatives may, from time to time, make written or verbal forward-looking statements, including statements contained in EnerSys’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and its reports to stockholders.
Generally, the inclusion of the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “future,” “intend,” “estimate,” “will,” “plans,” or the negative of such terms and similar expressions identify statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that are intended to come within the safe harbor protection provided by those sections.
All statements addressing operating performance, events, or developments that EnerSys expects or anticipates will occur in the future, including statements relating to sales growth, earnings or earnings per share growth, and market share, as well as statements expressing optimism or pessimism about future operating results, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act.
The forward-looking statements are and will be based on management’s then-current beliefs and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance and on information currently available to management, and are applicable only as of the dates of such statements.
Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
Although we do not make forward-looking statements unless we believe we have a reasonable basis for doing so, we cannot guarantee their accuracy.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to a number of uncertainties and risks, including the risks described in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the "2018 Annual Report") and other unforeseen risks.
You should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
These statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, even if subsequently made available by us on our website or otherwise, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including the following factors:

•general cyclical patterns of the industries in which our customers operate;

•the extent to which we cannot control our fixed and variable costs;

•the raw materials in our products may experience significant fluctuations in market price and availability;

•certain raw materials constitute hazardous materials that may give rise to costly environmental and safety claims;

•legislation regarding the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in our products;

•risks involved in our operations such as disruption of markets, changes in import and export laws, environmental regulations, currency restrictions and local currency exchange rate fluctuations;

•our ability to raise our selling prices to our customers when our product costs increase;

•the extent to which we are able to efficiently utilize our global manufacturing facilities and optimize our capacity;

•general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate;

•competitiveness of the battery markets and other energy solutions for industrial applications throughout the world;

•our timely development of competitive new products and product enhancements in a changing environment and the acceptance of such products and product enhancements by customers;

•our ability to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property, technology and brand names;

•litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we might be subject;

•our expectations concerning indemnification obligations;

•changes in our market share in the geographic business segments where we operate;

•our ability to implement our cost reduction initiatives successfully and improve our profitability;

•quality problems associated with our products;

•our ability to implement business strategies, including our acquisition strategy, manufacturing expansion and restructuring plans;

•our acquisition strategy may not be successful in locating advantageous targets;

•our ability to successfully integrate any assets, liabilities, customers, systems and management personnel we acquire into our operations and our ability to realize related revenue synergies, strategic gains and cost savings may be significantly harder to achieve, if at all, or may take longer to achieve;

•potential goodwill impairment charges, future impairment charges and fluctuations in the fair values of reporting units or of assets in the event projected financial results are not achieved within expected time frames;

•our debt and debt service requirements which may restrict our operational and financial flexibility, as well as imposing unfavorable interest and financing costs;

•our ability to maintain our existing credit facilities or obtain satisfactory new credit facilities;

•adverse changes in our short and long-term debt levels under our credit facilities;

•our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on our variable-rate debt;

•our ability to attract and retain qualified management and personnel;

•our ability to maintain good relations with labor unions;

•credit risk associated with our customers, including risk of insolvency and bankruptcy;

•our ability to successfully recover in the event of a disaster affecting our infrastructure;

•terrorist acts or acts of war, could cause damage or disruption to our operations, our suppliers, channels to market or customers, or could cause costs to increase, or create political or economic instability; and

•the operation, capacity and security of our information systems and infrastructure.
This list of factors that may affect future performance is illustrative, but by no means exhaustive.
Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty.
In the following discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition, certain financial measures may be considered “non-GAAP financial measures” under Securities and Exchange Commission rules.
These rules require supplemental explanation and reconciliation, which is provided in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
EnerSys’ management uses the non-GAAP measures “primary working capital” and “primary working capital percentage” in its evaluation of business segment cash flow and financial position performance.
These disclosures have limitations as an analytical tool, should not be viewed as a substitute for cash flow determined in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the Company’s results as reported under GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented by other companies.
Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
Overview

EnerSys (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is the world’s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries.
We also manufacture, market and distribute products such as battery chargers, power equipment, battery accessories, and outdoor cabinet enclosures.
Additionally, we provide related aftermarket and customer-support services for our products.
We market our products globally to over 10,000 customers in more than 100 countries through a network of distributors, independent representatives and our internal sales force.
•Americas, which includes North and South America, with our segment headquarters in Reading, Pennsylvania, USA;

•EMEA, which includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa, with our segment headquarters in Zug, Switzerland; and

•Asia, which includes Asia, Australia and Oceania, with our segment headquarters in Singapore.
•Reserve power products are used for backup power for the continuous operation of critical applications in telecommunications systems, uninterruptible power systems, or “UPS” applications for computer and computer-controlled systems, and other specialty power applications, including medical and security systems, premium starting, lighting and ignition applications, in switchgear, electrical control systems used in electric utilities, large-scale energy storage, energy pipelines, in commercial aircraft, satellites, military aircraft, submarines, ships and tactical vehicles.
Reserve power products also include thermally managed cabinets and enclosures for electronic equipment and batteries.
With the recent Alpha acquisition, we are a provider of highly integrated power solutions and services to broadband, telecom, renewable and industrial customers.
•Motive power products are used to provide power for electric industrial forklifts used in manufacturing, warehousing and other material handling applications as well as mining equipment, diesel locomotive starting and other rail equipment.
Alpha Acquisition

On December 7, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding common stock of Alpha Technologies Services, Inc. (“ATS”) and Alpha Technologies Ltd. (“ATL”), resulting in ATS and ATL becoming wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company (the “share purchase”).
Additionally, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Alpha Technologies Inc. and certain assets of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc. and other affiliates of ATS and ATL (all such sellers, together with ATS and ATL, “Alpha”), in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of certain restructuring agreements (collectively, the “asset acquisition” and together with the share purchase, the “acquisition”).
Based in Bellingham, Washington, Alpha is a global industry leader in the comprehensive commercial-grade energy solutions for broadband, telecom, renewable, industrial and traffic customers around the world.
The aggregate purchase consideration for the acquisition was $750.0 million, of which $650.0 million was paid in cash and the balance was settled by issuing 1,177,630 shares of EnerSys common stock.
These shares were issued out of the Company's treasury stock and were valued at $84.92 per share, which was based on the thirty-day volume weighted average stock price of the Company’s common stock at closing.
The Company funded the cash portion of the acquisition with borrowings from the Amended Credit Facility (as defined in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section).
The results of operations of Alpha have been included in the Company’s Americas segment beginning December 8, 2018.
Economic Climate

Recent indicators continue to suggest a mixed trend in economic activity among the different geographical regions.
North America and EMEA are experiencing moderate economic growth.
Our Asia region continues to grow faster than any other region in which we do business.
Volatility of Commodities and Foreign Currencies

Our most significant commodity and foreign currency exposures are related to lead and the Euro, respectively.
Historically, volatility of commodity costs and foreign currency exchange rates have caused large swings in our production costs.
As the global economic climate changes, we anticipate that our commodity costs and foreign currency exposures may continue to fluctuate as they have in the past several years.
Over the past year, on a consolidated basis, we have experienced rising commodity costs.
Customer Pricing

Our selling prices fluctuated during the last several years to offset the volatile cost of commodities.
Approximately 30% of our revenue is currently subject to agreements that adjust pricing to a market-based index for lead.
During the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019, where permitted, we increased our selling prices in response to increased commodity costs including other raw materials and freight.
Liquidity and Capital Resources

We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $397 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $505 million at December 30, 2018 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.
In fiscal 2018, we entered into a new credit facility (“2017 Credit Facility”) that comprised a $600 million senior secured revolving credit facility (“2017 Revolver”) and a $150 million senior secured term loan (“2017 Term Loan”) with a maturity date of September 30, 2022.
On December 7, 2018, we amended the 2017 Credit Facility (as amended, the “Amended Credit Facility”).
The Amended Credit Facility consists of $449.1 million senior secured term loans (the “Amended 2017 Term Loan”), including a CAD 133.0 million ($99.1 million) term loan and a $700.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Amended 2017 Revolver”).
The amendment resulted in an increase of the 2017 Term Loan and the 2017 Revolver by $299.1 million and $100.0 million, respectively.
A substantial majority of the Company’s cash and investments are held by foreign subsidiaries.
The majority of that cash and investments is expected to be utilized to fund local operating activities, capital expenditure requirements and acquisitions.
The Company believes that it has sufficient sources of domestic and foreign liquidity.
We believe that our strong capital structure and liquidity affords us access to capital for future capital expenditures, acquisition and stock repurchase opportunities and continued dividend payments.
Results of Operations

Net Sales

Segment sales



Net sales increased $21.1 million or 3.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
This increase was the result of a 4% increase due to revenues from acquisitions and a 2% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 3% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
Net sales increased $112.6 million or 5.9% in the nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the nine months of fiscal 2018.
This increase was the result of a 4% increase in organic volume, a 2% increase in pricing and a 1% increase in revenues from acquisitions, partially offset by a 1% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
The Americas segment’s net sales increased $48.8 million or 13.8% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 8% increase in revenues from acquisitions, 5% increase in organic volume and a 3% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
Net sales increased $133.8 million or 12.8% in the nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the nine months of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 9% increase in organic volume and a 3% increase each in pricing and acquisitions, partially offset by a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
The EMEA segment’s net sales decreased $7.1 million or 3.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 5% decrease in foreign currency translation impact, partially offset by a 2% increase in organic volume.
Net sales increased $10.4 million or 1.7% in the nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the nine months of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 3% increase in organic volume partially offset by a 1% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
The Asia segment’s net sales decreased $20.6 million or 25.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 23% decrease in organic volume and a 4% decrease in foreign currency translation impact partially offset by a 2% increase in pricing.
Net sales decreased $31.6 million or 13.9% in the nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the nine months of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 14% decrease in organic volume and a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact partially offset by a 2% increase in pricing.
Product line sales



Net sales of our reserve power products in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $2.5 million or 0.8% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase was primarily due to an 8% increase in acquisitions and a 2% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 6% decrease in organic volume and a 3% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
Net sales increased $42.5 million or 4.6% in the nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the nine months of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 3% increase in acquisitions, a 2% increase in pricing and a 1% increase in organic volume, partially offset by a 1% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
Net sales of our motive power products in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by $18.6 million or 5.6% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase was primarily due to a 7% increase in organic volume and a 2% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 3% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
Net sales increased $70.1 million or 7.2% in the nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the nine months of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 6% increase in organic volume and a 2% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 1% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
Gross Profit 



Gross profit decreased $2.6 million or 1.7% in the third quarter and decreased $0.2 million or 0.1% in the nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the comparable prior year periods of fiscal 2018.
Gross profit, as a percentage of net sales, decreased 120 basis points and 150 basis points in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively.
This decrease in the gross profit margin in both the third quarter and nine months is primarily due to an increase in commodity costs of approximately $10 million and $40 million, respectively, which were more than offset by increases in organic volume and pricing, but still resulted in gross margin dilution.
Operating Items 


NM = not meaningful


NM = not meaningful

Operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, increased 180 basis points and 40 basis points in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, compared to the comparable prior year periods of fiscal 2018.
Excluding the impact of the foreign currency translation, the increase in dollars was primarily due to payroll related expenses and the Alpha acquisition related costs.
Selling expenses, our main component of operating expenses, were 44.0% and 47.0% of total operating expenses in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, compared to 51.9% and 52.4% of total operating expenses in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2018.
Restructuring and other exit charges

The Company has taken and is contemplating additional meaningful restructuring actions in EMEA with the intent to improve profitability and streamline management’s focus.
With the recent Alpha acquisition, the Company has commenced making restructuring changes as part of its targeted synergy plans.
Included in our third quarter of fiscal 2019 operating results are restructuring charges of $0.6 million in Americas, $4.4 million in EMEA and $0.4 million in Asia.
The charges in the Americas relate to improving efficiencies of our general operations.
Of the $4.4 million charges in EMEA, $0.9 million relate to improving efficiencies of our general operations and $3.5 million relate to the sale of 100% of the shares in GAZ Geräte- und Akkumulatorenwerk Zwickau GmbH, a wholly-owned German subsidiary.
The transaction is planned to close on March 31, 2019, pending fulfillment of certain conditions contained in the sale and purchase agreement.
The exit is a consequence of the Company's strategic decision to streamline its product portfolio and focus its efforts on new technologies.
The charges in Asia primarily relate to improving efficiencies in the People's Republic of China.
Included in our third quarter of fiscal 2018 operating results are restructuring charges of $1.0 million in Americas and $0.8 million in EMEA.
The charges in the Americas relate to improving efficiencies of our general operations, while charges in EMEA relate to restructuring programs to improve efficiencies in our motive power production, supply chain and general operations.
Legal proceedings settlement income 

In fiscal 2009, the Court of Commerce in Lyon, France ruled that the Company’s French subsidiary, EnerSys Sarl, which was acquired by the Company in 2002, was partially responsible for a 1999 fire in a French hotel under construction.
The Company’s portion of damages was assessed at €2.7 million, or $4.2 million, which was duly recorded and paid by the Company, but the ruling was appealed.
In a subsequent ruling by the Court of Appeal of Lyon, France, the Company's portion of damages was reduced, entitling the Company to a refund of the monies paid of €0.7 million, or $0.9 million, which was recorded and collected in the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
The Company further appealed the ruling to the French Supreme Court, which on March 14, 2012, ruled in the Company’s favor and ordered the case back to the Court of Appeal of Lyon to further review certain aspects of the original decision in the case, including the assessment of damages.
The Court of Appeal of Lyon heard arguments on April 9, 2013 and ruled in the Company’s favor on June 11, 2013, entitling the Company to a refund of the monies paid of €2.0 million, or $2.8 million.
One of the parties to the litigation that is adverse to the Company appealed this ruling to the French Supreme Court which appeal was denied in January 2015.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company and the adverse party settled this final item with the Company receiving a refund, including interest, from the adverse party of €2.5 million, or $2.8 million, for monies paid.
The Company believes that it has no further liability with respect to this matter.
Operating Earnings



NM = not meaningful



NM = not meaningful

Operating earnings decreased $18.7 million or 27.4% and decreased $25.6 million or 12.6% in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, compared to the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2018.
Operating earnings, as a percentage of net sales, decreased 320 basis points and 190 basis points in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, compared to the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2018, primarily due to an increase in commodity costs, freight, tariffs and or other duties, partially offset by organic volume improvement, price recoveries and cost saving initiatives.
The Americas segment's operating earnings, excluding restructuring charges, decreased 280 basis points and 220 basis points, in the third quarter and nine months, respectively.
The decrease in the third quarter is primarily due to the impact of the Alpha transaction.
Operating earnings were also impacted by net pricing gains exceeding commodity, freight and tariff cost increases.
The decrease in the nine months of fiscal 2019 is primarily due to higher commodity costs, partially offset by organic volume improvement, price recoveries and cost saving initiatives.
The EMEA segment's operating earnings, excluding restructuring charges, decreased 260 basis points and 120 basis points in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, compared to the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher commodity costs and freight, partially offset by organic volume improvement and cost saving initiatives.
The Asia segment's operating earnings, excluding restructuring charges, decreased 310 basis points and 240 basis points in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, compared to the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a decrease in organic volume from a slow down in telecom spending during the nine months of fiscal 2019 in the People's Republic of China and a general softening of demand in Australia as well as higher commodity costs.
Interest Expense



Interest expense of $7.1 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 (net of interest income of $0.5 million) was $0.6 million higher than the interest expense of $6.5 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 (net of interest income of $0.8 million).
Interest expense of $20.0 million in the nine months of fiscal 2019 (net of interest income of $1.5 million) was $1.3 million higher than the interest expense of $18.7 million in the nine months of fiscal 2018 (net of interest income of $2.2 million).
The increase in interest expense in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to higher interest rates, partially offset by lower average debt.
Our average debt outstanding was $664.7 million and $636.8 million in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to $727.1 million and $674.2 million in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2018.
Included in interest expense were non-cash charges for deferred financing fees of $0.3 million and $0.9 million in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to $0.3 million and $1.3 million, in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2018.
Other (Income) Expense, Net



NM = not meaningful

Other (income) expense, net in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.0 million compared to income of $0.3 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Other (income) expense, net in the nine months of fiscal 2019 was income of $0.9 million compared to expense of $5.8 million in the nine months of fiscal 2018.
Foreign currency impact resulted in a gain of $1.0 million and $3.2 million, in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, compared to a foreign currency gain of $0.7 million and a loss of $4.4 million in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively.
The adoption of ASU No.
2017-07, “Compensation—Retirement Benefits (Topic 715)” in fiscal 2019 resulted in pension expense components other than service, being recorded in Other (income) expense, net.
These amounted to $0.3 million in both the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, and were $0.9 million and $1.1 million in the nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively.
Earnings Before Income Taxes



As a result of the above, earnings before income taxes in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased $19.6 million, or 31.4%, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and decreased $20.2 million or 11.2%, in the nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the nine months of fiscal 2018.
Income Tax Expense 


NM = not meaningful


The Company’s income tax provision consists of federal, state and foreign income taxes.
The tax provision for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 was based on the estimated effective tax rates applicable for the full years ending March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively, after giving effect to items specifically related to the interim periods.
Our effective income tax rate with respect to any period may be volatile based on the mix of income in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate, change in tax laws and the amount of our consolidated income before taxes.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”) was enacted into law.
Among the significant changes resulting from the law, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, and required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on unrepatriated cumulative non-U.S. earnings of foreign subsidiaries and created new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings.
The U.S. statutory tax rate for fiscal 2019 is 21.0%.
As of December 30, 2018, we have completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Tax Act.
We recognized an income tax benefit during the quarter of $13.5 million resulting from a decrease in the mandatory one-time transition tax on unremitted earnings of our foreign business.
Beginning in fiscal 2019, the global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”), foreign derived intangible income (“FDII”), and base-erosion and anti-abuse (“BEAT”) provisions became effective.
The GILTI provisions require us to include in our US income tax return foreign subsidiary earnings in excess of an allowable return on the foreign subsidiary’s tangible assets.
Under US GAAP, we are allowed to make an accounting policy choice of either (1) treating the taxes due on future US inclusions in taxable income as a current-period expense when incurred (“period cost method”) or (2) factoring amounts into a Company’s measurement of its deferred taxes (“deferred method”).
As of the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we have elected the period cost method.
Based on existing legislative guidance and interpretation, we have estimated the impact on the annual effective tax rate to increase by approximately 2.8% compared to prior year effective tax rate.
FDII allows a new deduction for U.S. corporations up to 37.5% of foreign derived intangible income.
This is an export incentive that reduces the tax on foreign derived sales and service income.
Based upon the existing legislative guidance and interpretation, we have estimated the impact on the annual effective tax rate to decrease by approximately 0.5% compared to prior year effective tax rate.
The BEAT provisions eliminate the deductions of certain base-erosion payments to related foreign corporations and impose a minimum tax if greater than regular tax.
We do not expect to be subject to BEAT in fiscal 2019.
The consolidated effective income tax rates were (13.3)% and 141.2%, respectively, for the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018 and were 10.4% and 63.2% for the nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The rate decrease in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the comparable prior year periods of fiscal 2018 is primarily due to changes in the mix of earnings among tax jurisdictions and items related to the Tax Act.
Foreign income as a percentage of worldwide income is estimated to be 74% for fiscal 2019 compared to 64% for fiscal 2018.
The foreign effective income tax rates for the nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 11.8% and 11.4%, respectively.
The rate increase compared to the prior year period is primarily due to changes in the mix of earnings among tax jurisdictions.
Income from the Company's Swiss subsidiary comprised a substantial portion of our overall foreign mix of income and is taxed at an effective income tax rate of approximately 6%.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies from those discussed under the caption “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2018 Annual Report.
The adoption of ASC 606 did not result in a material change to our “Revenue Recognition” critical accounting estimate.
See Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements in Note 1- Basis of Presentation, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, for further information on the adoption of ASC 606.
The Company issued performance condition-based awards in the third quarter ended December 30, 2018.
The fair value of performance condition based awards are recognized as compensation expense beginning at the time in which the performance conditions are deemed probable of achievement, which the Company assesses at each reporting period.
Once a performance condition is considered probable, the Company records compensation expense based on the portion of the service period elapsed to date with respect to that award, with a cumulative catch-up, net of estimated forfeitures, and recognize any remaining compensation expense, if any, over the remaining requisite service period using the straight method as the awards are subject to cliff vesting.
See Note 12, Stock-Based Compensation, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, for further information.
Liquidity and Capital Resources

Operating activities provided cash of $166.4 million in the nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to $129.9 million in the comparable period of fiscal 2018.
In the nine months of fiscal 2019, cash provided by operating activities was primarily from net earnings of $142.0 million, depreciation and amortization of $42.5 million, stock-based compensation of $14.6 million, non-cash charges relating to write-off of assets of $4.5 million and non-cash interest of $0.9 million.
Cash provided by earnings as adjusted for non-cash items were partially offset by the increase in primary working capital of $15.2 million, net of currency translation changes, and an outflow primarily related to taxes of $12.5 million in prepaid assets and $23.5 million in other liabilities.
Accrued expenses provided a source of funds of $14.3 million primarily relating to acquisition costs and payroll and incentives.
In the nine months of fiscal 2018, cash provided by operating activities was primarily from net earnings of $65.7 million, depreciation and amortization of $40.3 million, stock-based compensation of $14.8 million, deferred taxes benefit of $7.2 million, non-cash interest of $1.3 million and provision for doubtful accounts of $0.8 million.
Cash provided by earnings as adjusted for non-cash items was improved by an increase of $89.2 million in long term liabilities primarily due to the one-time transition tax liability on account of the Tax Act and was partially offset by the increase in primary working capital of $42.0 million, net of currency translation changes, and a decrease in accrued expenses of $30.5 million, comprising primarily of legal proceedings related payments, payroll related expenses and income taxes.
As explained in the discussion of our use of “non-GAAP financial measures,” we monitor the level and percentage of primary working capital to sales.
Primary working capital for this purpose is trade accounts receivable, plus inventories, minus trade accounts payable.
The resulting net amount is divided by the trailing three month net sales (annualized) to derive a primary working capital percentage.
Primary working capital was $827.8 million (yielding a primary working capital percentage of 24.9%) at December 30, 2018, $701.6 million (yielding a primary working capital percentage of 25.7%) at March 31, 2018 and $689.6 million at December 31, 2017 (yielding a primary working capital percentage of 26.2%).
The primary working capital percentage of 24.9% at December 30, 2018 is 80 basis points lower than that for March 31, 2018, and 130 basis points lower than that for the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of certain reclasses relating to the adoption of ASC 606, primary working capital percentage was 25.5%, which is 20 basis points lower than that for March 31, 2018 and 70 basis points lower than that for the prior year period.
The increase in primary working capital is primarily due to the inclusion of the Alpha primary working capital components.
Investing activities used cash of $702.1 million in the nine months of fiscal 2019 which primarily consisted of $650.0 million paid towards the Alpha acquisition and $52.7 million of capital expenditures relating to plant improvements.
Investing activities used cash of $45.7 million in the nine months of fiscal 2018 and primarily consisted of capital expenditures of $43.1 million and a $3.0 million acquisition.
Financing activities provided cash of $451.2 million in the nine months of fiscal 2019.
During the nine months of fiscal 2019, we borrowed $454.5 million under the Amended 2017 Revolver and $299.1 million under the Amended 2017 Term Loan, primarily to fund the Alpha acquisition and repaid $246.0 million of the Amended 2017 Revolver.
Treasury stock open market purchases were $25.0 million, payment of cash dividends to our stockholders were $22.3 million and payment of taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards were $3.4 million.
Proceeds from stock options were $9.0 million and net payments on short-term debt were $13.6 million.
Financing activities used cash of $51.5 million in the nine months of fiscal 2018.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we entered into a 2017 Credit Facility and borrowed $356.8 million under the 2017 Revolver and $150.0 million under the 2017 Term loan.
Repayments on the 2017 Revolver during the nine months of fiscal 2018 were $111.5 million.
Borrowings and repayments on the 2011 Revolver during the nine months of fiscal 2018 were $147.1 million and $312.1 million, respectively, and repayment of the 2011 Term loan was $127.5 million.
On August 4, 2017, the outstanding balance on the 2011 Revolver and the 2011 Term Loan of $240.0 million and $123.0 million, respectively, was repaid utilizing the proceeds from the 2017 Credit Facility.
We also paid $100.0 million under an accelerated share repurchase agreement (“ASR”), which was settled on January 5, 2018, the scheduled settlement date for the ASR.
Treasury stock open market purchases were $21.2 million, payment of cash dividends to our stockholders were $22.3 million, payment of taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards were $7.5 million and debt issuance costs were $2.7 million.
Net repayments on short-term debt were $1.4 million and proceeds from stock options were $0.8 million.
Currency translation had a negative impact of $40.5 million on our cash balance in the nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to a positive impact of $38.3 million in the nine months of fiscal 2018.
In the nine months of fiscal 2019, principal currencies in which we do business such as the Euro, Swiss franc, British pound, Polish zloty, Chinese renminbi and Mexican peso weakened versus the U.S. dollar.
As a result of the above, total cash and cash equivalents decreased by $125.0 million to $397.2 million, in the nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to an increase by $71.0 million to $571.3 million, in the comparable period of fiscal 2018.
All obligations under our Amended Credit Facility are secured by, among other things, substantially all of our U.S. assets.
The Amended Credit Facility contains various covenants which, absent prepayment in full of the indebtedness and other obligations, or the receipt of waivers, limit our ability to conduct certain specified business transactions, buy or sell assets out of the ordinary course of business, engage in sale and leaseback transactions, pay dividends and take certain other actions.
There are no prepayment penalties on loans under this credit facility.
We are in compliance with all covenants and conditions under our credit agreement and our 5.00% Senior Notes due 2023.
We believe that we will continue to comply with these covenants and conditions, and that we have the financial resources and the capital available to fund the foreseeable organic growth in our business and to remain active in pursuing further acquisition opportunities.
See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2018 Annual Report and Note 10 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a detailed description of our debt.
Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments

A table of our obligations is contained in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations of our 2018 Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2018.
On December 7, 2018, the Company amended its existing 2017 Credit Facility to fund the Alpha acquisition.
The Amended Credit Facility consists of $449.1 million senior secured term loans, including a CAD 133.0 million ($99.1 million) term loan and a $700.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility.
The amendment resulted in an increase of the 2017 Term Loan and the 2017 Revolver by $299.1 million and $100.0 million, respectively.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers

The following table summarizes the number of shares of common stock we purchased from participants in our equity incentive plans as well as repurchases of common stock authorized by the Board of Directors.
As provided by the Company’s equity incentive plans, (a) vested options outstanding may be exercised through surrender to the Company of option shares or vested options outstanding under the Company’s equity incentive plans to satisfy the applicable aggregate exercise price (and any withholding tax) required to be paid upon such exercise and (b) the withholding tax requirements related to the vesting and settlement of restricted stock units and market condition-based share units may be satisfied by the surrender of shares of the Company’s common stock.
Purchases of Equity Securities




Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.
ITEM 6.EXHIBITS


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
ENERSYS (Registrant) 


 Michael J. Schmidtlein

 Chief Financial Officer
