PART II OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.Legal Proceedings



From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business. See Litigation and Other Legal Matters in Note 8 - Commitments, Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 1A.Risk Factors



In addition to the other information set forth in this Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2018 Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2018, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results and the following.



If our due diligence investigation of Alpha was inadequate or if unexpected risks related to Alpha’s business materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our stockholders' investment.



Even though we conducted a due diligence investigation of Alpha, we cannot be sure that our diligence surfaced all material issues that may be present inside Alpha or its business, or that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of Alpha and its business and outside of its control will not arise later. If any such material issues arise, they may materially and adversely impact the on-going business of EnerSys and our stockholders’ investment.



Expected combination benefits from the Transaction may not be fully-realized or realized within the expected time frame. 



The ability of Alpha and EnerSys to realize the anticipated benefits of the Transaction will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to combine Alpha’s and our businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and realizes anticipated synergies, and achieves the projected stand-alone cost savings and revenue growth trends identified by each company. It is expected that we will benefit from operational and general and administrative cost synergies resulting from the warehouse and transportation integration, direct procurement savings on overlapping materials, purchasing scale on indirect spend categories and optimization of duplicate positions and processes. We may also enjoy revenue synergies, driven by a strong portfolio of brands with exposure to higher growth segments and the ability to leverage our collective distribution strength. In order to achieve these expected benefits, we must successfully combine the businesses of Alpha and EnerSys in a manner that permits these cost savings and synergies to be realized and must achieve the anticipated savings and synergies without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. If we experience difficulties with the integration process or are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the Transaction may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.



The United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union could harm our business and financial results.



In June 2016, voters in the United Kingdom approved the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union (commonly



referred to as “Brexit”). In March 2017, the UK government initiated the exit process under Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union,



commencing a period of up to two years for the United Kingdom and the other EU member states to negotiate the terms of the withdrawal. The British government and the European Union have now negotiated a withdrawal agreement, and the European Union has approved that agreement, but the British Parliament has not yet approved it. As a result, there remains considerable uncertainty around the withdrawal. Failure to obtain parliamentary approval of the negotiated withdrawal agreement would mean that the United Kingdom would leave the European Union on March 29, 2019, probably with no agreement (a so-called "hard Brexit"). The consequences for the economies of the European Union members and of the United Kingdom exiting the European Union are unknown and unpredictable, especially in the case of a hard Brexit. Depending on the final terms of Brexit, we could face new regulatory costs and challenges and greater volatility in the Pound Sterling and the euro. Any adjustments we make to our business and operations as of Brexit could result in significant time and expense to complete. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.



Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers



The following table summarizes the number of shares of common stock we purchased from participants in our equity incentive plans as well as repurchases of common stock authorized by the Board of Directors. As provided by the Company’s equity incentive plans, (a) vested options outstanding may be exercised through surrender to the Company of option shares or vested options outstanding under the Company’s equity incentive plans to satisfy the applicable aggregate exercise price (and any withholding tax) required to be paid upon such exercise and (b) the withholding tax requirements related to the vesting and settlement of restricted stock units and market condition-based share units may be satisfied by the surrender of shares of the Company’s common stock.



Purchases of Equity Securities









Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures



Not applicable.



ITEM 6.EXHIBITS





SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



ENERSYS (Registrant) 





 Michael J. Schmidtlein



 Chief Financial Officer





