Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Top Parent, Parent and BBX Intermediate have agreed to cause Merger Sub to commence a tender offer (as it may be extended, amended or supplemented from time to time, the “Offer”) to purchase any and all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company (the “Shares”), at a price of $1.08 per Share, net to the holder thereof, in cash, without interest thereon (such amount, the “Offer Price”).
As soon as practicable (and in any event within one business day) following the consummation of the Offer, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company (the “Merger”) in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the “DGCL”) and Section 251(h) thereof.
Each Share that is not tendered and accepted pursuant to the Offer (other than Shares owned by BBX Intermediate, Merger Sub or the Company, or by any of their direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, and Shares held by stockholders of the Company who are entitled to demand and who will have properly and validly demanded their statutory rights of appraisal in compliance in all respects with Section 262 of the DGCL) will be automatically converted into the right to receive the Offer Price at the time of the Merger, and the Company will survive the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of BBX Intermediate, all upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement.
BBX Intermediate has obtained debt financing commitments from Pathlight Capital LLC and Encina Business Credit, LLC, and Parent has obtained an equity financing commitment from Essar Telecom Limited, an entity organized under the laws of Mauritius and an affiliate of the Parent Entities, in each case to fund the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and subject to certain conditions.
The Offer is not subject to a financing condition.
We have identified the following risks related to the Company’s entry into the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, including the Offer and the Merger.
The obligation of Merger Sub to purchase Shares tendered in the Offer is subject to customary closing conditions, including, among other things, that at the expiration of the Offer a simple majority of all of the then outstanding Shares be validly tendered and not withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Offer (the “Minimum Condition”).
If the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement are not met or waived, the Offer may not close nor will the Merger be consummated.
We cannot ensure that each of the conditions to the consummation of the Offer will be satisfied.
written consent during the interim period between the execution of the Merger Agreement and the closing of the Merger (or the date on which the Merger Agreement is earlier terminated) to take certain actions with respect to our business and financial affairs.
We cannot predict or give any assurances as to the market price of our common stock at any time before or after the completion of the Offer and the Merger.
•failure to complete the contemplated transactions may substantially limit our ability to operate the business on an ongoing basis.
The restrictions on solicitation, the termination fees and the expense reimbursement contained in the Merger Agreement may discourage other companies from trying to make a competing proposal.
Following the funding by the Parent Entities of an escrow account for purposes of securing any applicable reverse termination fee, the Company is subject to certain “no shop” restrictions on its ability to solicit, initiate or facilitate proposals or discussions with third parties regarding alternative transactions and certain restrictions on the Company’s ability to respond to such proposals, except in the case of alternative refinancing transactions that might also include a limited equity component, which are exempt from such restrictions.
Upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, including as a result of the Company’s agreement to enter into certain alternative transactions, the Company will be required to pay to Parent a termination fee of up to $2,500,000.
In addition, if Parent or the Company terminates the Merger Agreement due to a failure to meet the Minimum Condition by February 8, 2019, then the Company will be required to pay to Parent an expense reimbursement amount of $1,000,000.
These provisions could discourage other companies from trying to make a competing proposal even though those other companies might be willing to offer greater value to our stockholders than the Parent Entities offered or might result in other companies offering less value to our stockholders than they might otherwise have offered.
The Offer will be completed and the Merger consummated only if certain conditions are met; accordingly, there may be uncertainty regarding the completion of the Offer and the consummation of the Merger.
Customers, suppliers, lenders and partners may also seek to change existing agreements with us as a result of the proposed Offer and Merger.
This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, and operations personnel.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
David J. Russo
