Financial Statements.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of Black Box have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
The Company believes that these consolidated financial statements reflect all normal, recurring adjustments needed to present fairly the Company’s results for the interim periods presented.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (the "Form 10-K").
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
The actual ending dates for the periods presented in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively.
References herein to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
All references to dollar amounts herein are presented in thousands, except per share amounts, unless otherwise noted.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain items in the consolidated financial statements of prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income (loss), comprehensive income (loss), cash flows, total assets or total stockholders' equity.
Significant estimates in these financial statements include project progress towards completion to estimated budget, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, sales returns, net realizable value of inventories, loss contingencies, warranty reserves, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill.
Management believes the estimates made are reasonable.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business.
As of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management believes that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months.
These assets, all of which are Property, plant and equipment, are presented as "Assets held for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements within the Form 10-K. No additional significant accounting policies have been adopted during Fiscal 2018.
There have been no accounting pronouncements adopted during Fiscal 2018 that have had a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Given the scope of work required to implement the recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard, the Company has continued to make progress through the third quarter of Fiscal 2018.
The Company has established an implementation team that has and will continue to review 1) contract terms and existing accounting policies to determine the financial impact of the standard, 2) data availability and system reports to meet the additional disclosure requirements of the standard, and 3) the control environment and internal processes to ensure the appropriate controls are in place.
As we continue to assess all potential impacts of the standard, any preliminary conclusions are subject to change.
The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets consist solely of the Company’s trademark portfolio.
The Company’s definite-lived intangible assets now consist solely of customer relationships.
Historically, the Company's annual assessment of the recoverability of trademarks and long-lived assets is conducted as of the end of the second quarter of its fiscal year.
The following table details the estimated intangibles amortization expense for the remainder of Fiscal 2018, each of the succeeding four fiscal years and the periods thereafter.
In addition, the Company finances certain vendor-specific inventory under an unsecured revolving arrangement through third parties which provide extended payment terms beyond those offered by the vendor at no incremental cost to the Company.
The outstanding balance for these unsecured revolving arrangements was $4,758 as of December 31, 2017, $4,540 of which is classified as a current liability, and $3,387 as of March 31, 2017, $3,169 of which was classified as a current liability.
These balances are recorded as Other liabilities within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The ability of the Company to make dividends or other distributions (including stock repurchases other than up to a limited dollar amount for tax payments from vested equity awards) has been eliminated.
Entity”) and are guaranteed by such domestic subsidiaries.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company and each U.S.
Entity pledged 65% of the voting ownership interests and 100% of the non-voting ownership interests of its foreign subsidiaries.
Our Amended Credit Agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019.
A leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 through maturity in May 2021.
The covenants in our Amended Credit Agreement were determined based upon our then expectations of revenues and profitability.
Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information.
The Company uses derivative instruments to manage financial exposures that occur in the normal course of business.
It does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative trading purposes.
The Company is exposed to non-performance risk from the counterparties in its derivative instruments.
To help mitigate this risk, the Company transacts only with counterparties that are rated as investment grade or higher and all counterparties are monitored on a continuous basis.
The fair value of the Company’s derivatives reflects this credit risk.
The Company enters into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposure to variability in expected fluctuations in foreign currencies.
All of the foreign currency contracts have been designated and qualify as cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of any changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments is recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI") until the hedged forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had open contracts in Australian and Canadian dollars, Danish krone, Euros, Mexican pesos, Norwegian kroner, British pounds sterling, Swedish krona, Swiss francs and Japanese yen, all of which have been designated as cash flow hedges.
These contracts had a notional amount of $33,354 and will expire within 3 months.
There was no hedge ineffectiveness during Fiscal 2018 or Fiscal 2017.
The Company's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include non-financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination.
Since the inception of its repurchase programs beginning in April 1999 and through December 31, 2017, the Company has repurchased 11,392,851 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $408,621, or an average purchase price per share of $35.87.
These shares do not include the treasury shares withheld for tax payments due upon the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares.
As of December 31, 2017, 1,107,149 shares were available under the most recent repurchase programs.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable.
This restriction is in effect until May 9, 2021, the termination date of the Amended Credit Agreement.
See Note 5 for additional information regarding our Amended Credit Agreement.
The change represents a discrete item for purposes of income tax accounting.
The increase in the provision was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Reform, valuation allowances booked against foreign tax credit carry-forwards, and certain state and foreign net operating loss carry-forwards.
The Company provides for income taxes at the end of each interim period based on the estimated effective tax rate adjusted for certain discrete items for the full fiscal year.
Based on the available evidence, a valuation allowance of $6,236 has been recorded against deferred tax assets relating to U.S. Federal foreign tax credits for $6,061, and state and foreign net operating losses for $17 and $158, respectively, for the three-
months ended December 31, 2017.
In August 2008, the Company’s stockholders approved the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Incentive Plan"), which replaced the 1992 Stock Option Plan, as amended, and the 1992 Director Stock Option Plan, as amended.
As of December 31, 2017, the Incentive Plan is authorized to issue stock options, restricted stock units and performance shares, among other types of awards, for up to 6,498,331 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "common stock").
Stock option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant; such stock options generally become exercisable in equal amounts over a three-year period and have a contractual life of ten years from the grant date.
The fair value of stock options is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which includes the following weighted-average assumptions.
The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $2.48 and $3.74, respectively.
The intrinsic value of options exercised during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $8 and $0, respectively.
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table is based on the closing stock price of the common stock on December 29, 2017, which was $3.55.
As of December 31, 2017, there was $950 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.
Restricted stock unit awards are subject to a service condition and typically vest in equal amounts over a three-year period from the grant date.
The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of restricted stock units granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant.
The total fair value of shares that vested during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $1,902 and $2,039, respectively.
As of December 31, 2017, there was $2,480 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years.
Performance share awards are subject to one of the performance goals - the Company's Relative Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") Ranking or cumulative Adjusted EBITDA - each over a three-year period.
The Company’s Relative TSR Ranking metric is based on the three-year cumulative return to stockholders from the change in stock price and dividends paid between the starting and ending dates.
The fair value of performance share awards (subject to cumulative Adjusted EBITDA) is determined based on the number of performance shares granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant.
The fair value of performance share awards (subject to the Company’s Relative TSR Ranking) is estimated on the grant date using the Monte-Carlo simulation valuation method which includes the following weighted-average assumptions.
The total fair value of shares that vested during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $0 and $0, respectively, as there were no payouts because certain performance obligations were not met.
As of December 31, 2017, there was $1,355 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested performance share awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.
The Weighted-average common shares outstanding (diluted) computation is not impacted during any period where the exercise price of a stock option is greater than the average market price.
There were 1,872,446 and 1,165,620 non-dilutive equity awards outstanding for the three-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 1,808,928 and 1,202,159 non-dilutive equity awards outstanding for the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, that are not included in the corresponding period Weighted-average common shares outstanding (diluted) computation.
The Company conducts business globally and is managed on a geographic-service type basis consisting of four operating segments which are (i) North America Products, (ii) North America Services, (iii) International Products and (iv) International Services.
These operating segments are also the Company's reporting units for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment and its reporting segments for financial reporting purposes.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those of the Company.
The Company allocates resources to its operating segments and evaluates the performance of the operating segments based upon operating income.
In connection with the Amended Credit Agreement disclosed in Note 5, the Company is required to make payments of $6,250 on its term loan over the next 12 months.
Correspondingly, the Company expects its long-term payments (greater than 1 year) under the credit facility to decrease by $6,250.
The Company is involved in, or has pending, various legal proceedings, claims, suits and complaints arising out of the normal course of business.
These restructuring activities are compartmentalized and are not part of an overall plan and therefore the Company cannot estimate the total amount to be incurred in connection with the activity.
Employee severance is generally payable within the next twelve months with certain facility costs extending through Fiscal 2019.
The following table summarizes the changes to the restructuring liability for the periods presented.
Of the $3,877 above, $3,829 is classified as a current liability under Other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets for the period ended December 31, 2017.
Company management is continuing to assess ways to align costs with revenue to improve profitability.
We can provide no assurance that we will continue to have adequate liquidity as we are dependent upon our senior credit facility to fund our cash needs.
We are dependent upon our senior credit facility to fund our cash needs.
In August 2017, we amended our senior credit agreement to avoid a default of our then existing leverage covenant.
Our amended credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019.
A leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 through maturity in May 2021.
Based upon our current projections, we may not be able to generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 (ending March 31, 2018) in order to meet the minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant for that quarter.
If we fail to meet such minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant, the lenders would have the ability to exercise all of their legal and contractual remedies for default including, among others, the right to cease extending credit under the credit facility, to declare all outstanding obligations under the credit facility (including all outstanding indebtedness) to be immediately due and payable, to take action to protect its security interests in the collateral (which is substantially all of the assets of the Company) including taking possession thereof, and to increase the interest rate under the credit facility.
There can be no assurance that the Company will generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 or in fiscal quarters thereafter in order to avoid a breach of the Amended Credit Agreement.
In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its efforts to limit the remedies of the lenders in the event of such default.
