ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 





We maintain depository investments with certain financial institutions. Although these depository investments may exceed government insured depository limits, we have evaluated the credit worthiness of these financial institutions, and determined the risk of material financial loss due to exposure of such credit risk to be minimal. As of March 31, 2018, $80.4 million of our cash and cash equivalents, primarily certain domestic money market funds, commercial paper and foreign depository accounts, were in excess of government provided insured depository limits. 



As of March 31, 2018, approximately $110.3 million of our cash and investments may be directly affected by changes in interest rates. We have performed a hypothetical sensitivity analysis assuming market interest rates increase or decrease by 50 basis points (bps) for an entire year, while all other variables remain constant. At March 31, 2018, we held $51.0 million of cash and variable-rate investments where a change in interest rates would impact our interest income. A hypothetical 50 bps decline in interest rates as of March 31, 2018 would reduce annualized interest income on our cash and investments by approximately $0.3 million. In addition, we held $59.2 million of fixed-rate bonds whose fair values may be directly affected by a change in interest rates. A hypothetical 50 bps increase in interest rates as of March 31, 2018 would reduce the fair value of our fixed-rate bonds by approximately $0.4 million. 



As of March 31, 2017, approximately $169.3 million of our cash and investments was subject to being directly affected by changes in interest rates. We have performed a hypothetical sensitivity analysis assuming market interest rates increase or decrease by 50 bps for the entire year, while all other variables remain constant. A hypothetical 50 bps decline in interest rates as of March 31, 2017 would have reduced annualized interest income on our cash, money market instruments and variable rate demand notes by approximately $0.4 million. In addition, a hypothetical 50 bps increase in interest rates as of March 31, 2017 would have reduced the fair value of our fixed-rate bonds by approximately $0.5 million. 



We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates to the extent that such changes affect our revenue and gross margin on revenue derived from some international customers, expenses, and assets and liabilities held in non-functional currencies related to our foreign subsidiaries. Our primary exposures to foreign currency exchange rates are with our German subsidiary, whose functional currency is the Euro, our Australian subsidiary, whose functional currency is the Australian dollar, and our Mexican subsidiary, whose functional currency is the United States dollar. We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates to the extent of our German subsidiary’s use of contract manufacturers and raw material suppliers whom we predominately pay in U.S. dollars. We may establish cash flow hedges utilizing foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that movements in exchange rates will adversely affect the net cash flows resulting from the planned purchase of products from foreign suppliers. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates could cause variations in gross margin in the products that we sell in the EMEA region. 



We have certain customers and suppliers who are invoiced or pay in a non-functional currency. Changes in the monetary exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as outstanding non-functional balances are revalued to the functional currency through profit and loss. When appropriate, we utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to help manage the volatility relating to these valuation exposures. All changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments that do not qualify for or are not designated for hedged accounting transactions are recognized as other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statements of Income. We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. All non-functional currencies billed would result in a combined hypothetical gain or loss of $0.1 million if the U.S. dollar weakened or strengthened 10% against the billing currencies. Any gain or loss would be partially mitigated by these derivative instruments. 



As of March 31, 2018, we had no material contracts, other than accounts receivable and accounts payable, denominated in foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2018, we did not have any forward contracts outstanding. 



For further information about the fair value of our investments and our derivative and hedging activities as of March 31, 2018, see Notes 7 and 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 





