item1.txt
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements."
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements."
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements."
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements."
The quarters ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks.
Revenue from software license agreements, software license renewals, and other contracts are recognized at point of sales, whereas previously these were deferred and recognized over the contractual term before the implementation of the authoritative guidance.
The authoritative guidance does not change the guidance for classifying and measuring investments in debt securities and loans.
The authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods.
Subsequent changes in fair value from such investments are recorded in the condensed consolidated statements of income.
The new authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Early adoption is permitted.
The amendments do not change the existing disclosure requirements in current GAAP.
The amendments have the same effective date as the new leases standard, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Financial institution securities include securities issued or managed by financial institutions in various forms, such as commercial paper and time deposits.
Substantially all time deposits were issued by institutions outside the U.S. as of September 29, 2018 and March 31, 2018.
This change in fair value was a net decrease of $73 thousand and $6.3 million for the three and six months ended September 29, 2018, respectively, and resulted in an expense within interest and other income, net for the period.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of marketable debt securities (financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities), by contractual maturity, are shown in the table below.


item2.txt
•Core Products consist of all other product families.
Net revenues in Japan was relatively flat in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, but increased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
Revenue from TME increased for both periods, but the increase was offset by lower sales from Wireless, in particular during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Amortization expense for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased slightly from the comparable prior year period.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
See "Note 17.
"Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
Most of our wafers are manufactured in Taiwan by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC).
In addition, we also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Disruption of operations at these foundries and our facilities could cause delays in manufacturing and shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Any catastrophic event in these locations would disrupt our operations, and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations.


