fls.txt



item1.txt
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements."
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements."
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements."
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements."
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 30, 2019 or any future period.
Fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are both 52-week years ending on March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
The quarters ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks.
Note 2.Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the authoritative guidance, as amended, that outlines a new revenue recognition standard that replaces virtually all existing U.S. GAAP guidance on contracts with customers and the related other assets and deferred costs.
Revenue from software license agreements, software license renewals, and other contracts are recognized at point of sales, whereas previously these were deferred and recognized over the contractual term before the implementation of the authoritative guidance.
The authoritative guidance also changes certain disclosure requirements and other aspects of current U.S. GAAP on this matter.
The authoritative guidance does not change the guidance for classifying and measuring investments in debt securities and loans.
Subsequent changes in fair value from such investments are recorded in the condensed consolidated statements of income.
In October 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on income taxes which eliminates the deferred tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory.
As a result, a reporting entity would recognize the tax expense from the sale of an asset in the seller’s tax jurisdiction when the transfer occurs, even though the pre-tax effects of that transaction are eliminated in consolidation.
The new authoritative guidance requires the recognition of assets and liabilities arising from lease transactions on the balance sheet and will also require significant additional disclosures about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows from leases.
The new authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The amendments do not change the existing disclosure requirements in current GAAP.


item2.txt
The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of these assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill.
Fair value estimates are based on the assumptions management believes a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability.
•Advanced Products include our most recent product offerings and consist of the Alveo branded boards, UltraScale+, UltraScale and 7-series product families.


item3.txt
Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Contingencies" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Item 1.
"Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.
The following risk factors and other information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be carefully considered.
The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the Company.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations.
In addition, we also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
We are dependent on these foundries to supply the substantial majority of our wafers.
We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes.


