item1.txt
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 28, 2020 or any future period.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance on leases.
The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease, or contains a lease, at the inception of the arrangement.
Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Xilinx generally does not require collateral for receivables from its end customers or distributors.
Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
The Company’s investments in non-marketable securities of private companies are recorded at fair value if the Company recognizes an observable price adjustment or an impairment.
Such impairment losses or observable price adjustments were not material during all periods presented.
Additionally, in the past several years a portion of the Company's investment in the mortgage-backed securities was redeemed or prepaid by the debtors at par.
As of September 28, 2019, $550.7 million of marketable debt securities with contractual maturities of greater than one year were classified as short-term investments.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company sold the interest rate swap contracts for an immaterial gain.
As a result of the sale, the Company recorded the net change in fair value of the interest rate swap contracts of $11.7 million in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
See “Note 10.
There was no ineffectiveness during all periods presented.
Note 7.
As of September 28, 2019, 14.9 million shares remained available for grant under the 2007 Equity Plan.


item2.txt
•Core Products consist of all other product families.
Specifically, we are grouping the products manufactured at the 28 nanometer (nm), 20nm and 16nm nodes into the Advanced Products category while all other products are grouped in the Core Products category.
Net revenues from AIT increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues from Wired and Wireless increased significantly in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods.


item3.txt
As part of our strategy to reduce volatility of operating expenses due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we employ a hedging program with forward outlook of up to two years for major foreign-currency-denominated operating expenses.


item4.txt



part2.txt
See "Note 17.
"Financial Statements" for information regarding our legal proceedings.
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
Most of our wafers are manufactured in Taiwan by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (TSMC) and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC).
We also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Disruption of operations at these foundries and our facilities could cause delays in manufacturing and shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Any catastrophic event in these locations would disrupt our operations, and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations.
Furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us.
However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy.


