fls.txt



item1.txt
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
The interim financial statements are unaudited, but reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal, recurring nature necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018 or any future period.
The Company uses a 52- to 53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest March 31.
The authoritative guidance provides a five-step process for recognizing revenue that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The new authoritative guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application.
The Company is currently evaluating the full impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements, including selection of the transition method.
It does not change the guidance for classifying and measuring investments in debt securities and loans.
The new authoritative guidance requires the recognition of assets and liabilities arising from lease transactions on the balance sheet and will also require significant additional disclosures about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows from leases.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for cash flow classification.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that clarifies the scope of modification accounting for share-based compensation.


item2.txt
The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
•Advanced Products include our recent product offerings and include the UltraScale+, UltraScale and 7-series product families.
Specifically, we grouped the products manufactured at the 28nm, 20nm and 16nm nodes into a category named Advanced Products while all other products are included in a category named Core Products.
Net revenues of $631.2 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 represented an 8% increase from the comparable prior year period of $585.7 million.


item3.txt
These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Contingencies" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Item 1.
"Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
Most of our wafers are manufactured in Taiwan by TSMC and UMC.
We are dependent on these foundries to supply the substantial majority of our wafers.
We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes.
The insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
Any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities, and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations.


