Item 1A.
Risk Factors

A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
The information below includes additional risks relating to the transfer of certain Test segment production operations in China to a contract manufacturing partner and the enactment of U.S. federal income tax legislation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act).
The risks described below and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face.
Additional risks not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.
The transfer of certain Test production operations in China to our new contract manufacturing partner may be subject to delays, increased costs or other unanticipated consequences.
On March 13, 2018, we announced workforce reductions and manufacturing facility closures in our Test segment corresponding to the transfer of certain production operations in China to a contract manufacturing partner.
These changes are designed to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in growth initiatives.
We can make no assurances that our current estimates of costs and timing of this restructuring action will be accurate or that additional costs will not be incurred as we continue the restructuring action.
Any differences from our current estimates could be material and could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations through delays in our timeline or increased costs.
For further information on restructuring actions, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
While we believe our China contract manufacturing partner to be qualified to manufacture our Test segment products, we may need to address short-term quality and delivery issues.
We have not previously used contract manufacturing partners on a large scale.
Significant quality or delivery schedule concerns and unforeseen costs might adversely affect our relationships with customers and our overall business, financial condition or results of operations.
The final impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could be materially different from our current estimates.
