Item 1.
Financial Statements
MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited)
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity (Unaudited)
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)
NOTE 1 BASIS OF PRESENTATION
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
We have prepared the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States (U.S.) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
The information furnished in these consolidated financial statements includes normal recurring adjustments and reflects all adjustments that are, in our opinion, necessary for a fair presentation of such financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to SEC rules and regulations.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 filed with the SEC.
Interim results of operations for the third fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year.
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30.
Fiscal year 2019 ending on September 28, 2019 will consist of 52 weeks.
Fiscal year 2018 ended on September 29, 2018 consisted of 52 weeks.
Changes to Significant Accounting Policies
The following accounting policies have been updated since our fiscal year 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Revenue Recognition
As described in Note 2, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments, on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
Our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance are included in Note 3.
NOTE 2 RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
Leases
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new lease standard"), which requires lessees to recognize most leases on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
Under the new lease standard, a company recognizes a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a corresponding lease liability for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
The new lease standard requires enhanced disclosures regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from a company's leases.
Adoption of the new lease standard is required for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The new guidance is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective transition method, and an optional transition method may be elected to use the effective date as the date of initial application on transition.
We intend to adopt the new lease standard for our fiscal year 2020 under the optional transition method with an effective date of September 29, 2019.
As a result, we will not adjust our comparative period financial information or make the new required lease disclosures for periods before the effective date, and we will record the impact from adoption as a cumulative-effect reduction to retained earnings as of the effective date.
We are currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs, and we are currently evaluating the other practical expedients available under the new lease standard.
We continue to make progress with preparation for the adoption and implementation of the new lease standard, including assessing the completeness of our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients and accounting policy elections, revising our lease-related accounting policies, assessing impacts to controls, and implementing a lease software solution.
We anticipate the adoption of the new lease standard will result in an increase in assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The impact on our Consolidated Statement of Income and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows is being evaluated.
We continue to evaluate the impact that these changes in methodology will have on our financial condition, results of operations and disclosures.
Other
Adopted
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new revenue standard" or "ASC 606"), to provide a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
Under the new revenue standard, a company recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Determination of when and how revenue is recognized is based on a five-step analysis.
Enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a company's contracts with customers are required.
We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method.
As of September 30, 2018, we recorded a cumulative-effect reduction to the opening balance of our fiscal year 2019 retained earnings of $6,227, net of tax, for the net deferral of previously recognized revenue and related cost of sales, partially offset by the capitalization and deferral of pre-contract costs.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
See Note 3 for our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Existing guidance required companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
We adopted the standard on a modified retrospective basis for the annual period ending September 28, 2019, including interim periods within that annual period.
The adoption of this guidance had no impact on our financial condition, results of operations or disclosures.
Adoption
We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method.
We applied the new revenue standard to all contracts which were not completed as of the effective date and elected not to apply contract modification guidance retrospectively.
As a result of adoption, we recorded a cumulative-effect reduction to the opening balance of our fiscal year 2019 retained earnings of $6,227, net of tax, for the net deferral of previously recognized revenue and related cost of sales, partially offset by the capitalization and deferral of pre-contract costs.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for transferring those goods or providing those services.
We account for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are known, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under the new revenue standard.
A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
Many of our contracts have a single performance obligation as the promise to transfer the individual goods or services is not separately identifiable from other promises in the contracts and, therefore, not distinct.
In situations when our contract includes distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer over time, they are recognized as a series of distinct goods or services.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract's transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.
We do not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component if we expect, at contract inception, that the period between when we transfer a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
Revenue is recorded net of taxes collected from customers, and taxes collected are recorded as current liabilities until remitted to the relevant government authority.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control of a product has transferred are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
The following is a description of the product offerings, end markets, typical revenue transactions and payment terms for each of our two reportable segments.
See Note 15 for further information on reportable segments.
Sensors
Our Sensors segment (Sensors) manufactures and sells high-performance sensors which provide measurements of vibration, pressure, position, force and sound in a variety of applications.
Our Sensors products are used to enable automation, enhance precision and safety, and lower our customers' production costs by improving performance and reducing downtime.
Primary Sensors markets include automotive, aerospace and defense, industrial, and research and development.
Our Sensors products are sold as configurable, standard units; utilize piezoelectric or magnetostriction technology; and are ideal for use in harsh operating environments to provide accurate and reliable sensor information.
To complement our Sensors products, we also provide spare parts and services.
The cycle from contract inception to shipment of equipment is typically one to three months, with the exception of certain high-volume contracts which are fulfilled in a series of shipments over an extended period.
Our Sensors contracts generally have a single performance obligation which is satisfied at a point in time.
The performance obligation is a stand-alone sensor product, accessory, service or software license.
Sensors contracts are generally fixed-price purchase order fulfillment contracts, and the transaction price is equal to the observable consideration in the contract.
Revenue is recognized when obligations under the terms of the contract with our customer are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control upon product shipment (as evidenced by shipment or delivery terms) or with the performance of the service.
Certain contracts are measured using the as invoiced practical expedient as we have a right to consideration from a customer in an amount that corresponds directly with the value to the customer of our performance completed to date.
For our Sensors contracts with customers, payment terms are generally within 90 days.
The timing of satisfying our Sensors performance obligations does not vary significantly from the typical timing of payment.
For certain high-volume contracts, we are entitled to receive an advance payment.
Disaggregation of Revenue
We disaggregate our revenue by reportable segment, sales type (product or service), the timing of recognition of revenue for transfer of goods or services to customers (point-in-time or over time), and geographic market based on the billing location of the customer.
See Note 15 for further information on our reportable segments and intersegment revenue.
Contract Assets and Liabilities
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled accounts receivable (contract assets) and advance payments from customers (contract liabilities).
Contract balances are classified as assets or liabilities on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
Contract liabilities represent payments received from customers at contract inception and at milestones per contract provisions.
These payments are recorded in advance payments from customers and other long-term liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets (current and non-current portions, respectively) and are liquidated as revenue is recognized.
Conversely, when billing occurs subsequent to revenue recognition for contracts recognized over time, balances are recorded in unbilled accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As customers are billed, unbilled accounts receivable balances are transferred to accounts receivable, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
1 See Note 16 for additional information regarding acquisitions.
Remaining Performance Obligations
Contract Estimates
For contracts recognized over time, we estimate the profit on a contract as the difference between the total estimated revenue and expected costs to complete a contract and recognize that profit over the life of the contract.
Contract estimates are based on various assumptions to project the outcome of future events that may span several years.
These assumptions include labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, and internal and subcontractor performance.
Pricing is established at or prior to the time of sale with our customers, and we record sales at the agreed-upon selling price.
The terms of a contract or the historical business practice can give rise to variable consideration due to but not limited to volume discounts, penalties and early payment discounts.
We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount we will receive from customers.
We include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized for such transaction will not occur, or when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
In general, variable consideration in our contracts relates to the entire contract.
As a result, the variable consideration is allocated proportionately to all performance obligations.
Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information (historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available to us at contract
inception.
There are no significant instances where variable consideration is constrained and not recorded at the initial time of sale.
As a significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts, we review and update our contract-related estimates regularly.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts under the cumulative catch-up method.
Under this method, the impact of the adjustment on profit recorded to date is recognized in the period the adjustment is identified.
Revenue and profit in future periods of contract performance is recognized using the adjusted estimate.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the total loss in the period it is identified.
Our review of contract-related estimates has not resulted in adjustments that are significant to our results of operations.
Contract Modifications
When contracts are modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements, we consider whether the modification either creates new, or changes existing, enforceable rights and obligations.
Contract modifications that are for goods or services that are not distinct from the existing contract, due to the significant integration with the original product or service provided, are accounted for as if they were part of that existing contract.
The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price, and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates, is recognized as an adjustment to revenue (either as an increase in or a reduction of revenue) on a cumulative catch-up basis.
When the modifications include additional performance obligations that are distinct and at a relative stand-alone selling price, they are accounted for as a new contract and performance obligation and recognized prospectively.
Warranties and Returns
Our sales terms generally do not allow for a right of return except for situations where the product fails.
When the right of return exists, we recognize revenue for the transferred products at the expected amount of consideration for which we will be entitled.
Pre-contract Costs
We adopted the new revenue standard effective September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method which impacted inventories, net.
See Note 3 for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
NOTE 5 WARRANTY OBLIGATIONS
Sales of our products and systems are subject to limited warranty obligations that are included in customer contracts.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.
Product obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of purchase.
Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty.
Under the terms of these warranties, we are obligated to repair or replace any components or assemblies deemed defective due to workmanship or materials.
We reserve the right to reject warranty claims where it is determined that failure is due to normal wear, customer modifications, improper maintenance or misuse.
We record general warranty provisions based on an estimated warranty expense percentage applied to current period revenue.
The percentage applied reflects our historical warranty claims experience over the preceding 12-month period.
Both the experience percentage and the warranty liability are evaluated on an ongoing basis for adequacy.
Warranty provisions are also recognized for certain unanticipated product claims that are individually significant.
NOTE 6 CAPITAL ASSETS
Property and Equipment
Goodwill
1 See Note 16 for additional information regarding acquisitions.
Intangible Assets
Future amortization amounts presented above are estimates.
Actual future amortization expense may be different due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, future acquisitions, impairments, changes in amortization periods or other factors.
NOTE 7 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
The hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1, as this level provides the most reliable measure of fair value, while giving the lowest priority to Level 3.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments.
Carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities are equal to the fair value.
See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
Based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and spot rates.
Carrying amount of the financial asset is equal to the fair value.
See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
These assets primarily include goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets acquired either as part of a business acquisition, individually or with a group of other assets, as well as property and equipment.
These assets were initially measured and recognized at amounts equal to the fair value determined as of the date of acquisition or purchase subject to changes in value only for foreign currency translation.
Periodically, these assets are tested for impairment by comparing their respective carrying values to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit or asset group in which they reside.
In the event any of these assets were to become impaired, we would recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit, impaired asset or asset group exceeds its estimated fair value.
Fair value measurements of reporting units are estimated using an income approach involving discounted or undiscounted cash flow models that contain certain Level 3 inputs requiring management judgment, including projections of economic conditions and customer demand, revenue and margins, changes in competition, operating costs, working capital requirements and new product introductions.
Fair value measurements of the reporting units associated with our goodwill balances and our indefinite-lived intangible assets are estimated at least annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year for purposes of impairment testing if a quantitative analysis is performed.
Fair value measurements associated with our intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment are estimated when events or changes in circumstances such as market value, asset utilization, physical change, legal factors or other matters indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
See Note 6 for additional information on goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment.
Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value
Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate.
These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, unbilled accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.
Other Financial Instruments
1 The fair value of the 8.75% tangible equity units (TEUs) is based on the most recently quoted price for the outstanding securities, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value.
The estimated fair value of these long-term obligations is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange.
See Note 12 for additional information on the TEUs.
The fair value of the tranche B term loan is based on the most recently quoted market price for the outstanding debt instrument, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value.
The estimated fair value of the debt obligation is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange.
See Note 9 for additional information on debt instruments.
NOTE 8 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
Cash Flow Hedging – Currency Risks
Currency exchange contracts utilized to maintain the functional currency value of expected financial transactions denominated in foreign currencies are designated as cash flow hedges.
Gains and losses related to changes in the market value of these contracts are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and reclassified to earnings in the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income and in the same period as the recognition of the underlying hedged transaction.
We periodically assess whether our currency exchange contracts are effective and, when a contract is determined to be no longer effective as a hedge, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively.
As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $35,412 and $39,856, respectively.
Upon netting offsetting contracts to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding was $28,176 and $29,315 as of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively.
As of June 29, 2019, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $85, consisting of $350 in assets and $265 in liabilities.
As of September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $816, consisting of $989 in assets and $173 in liabilities.
As of June 29, 2019, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $98.
The maximum remaining maturity of any forward or optional contract as of June 29, 2019 was 1.4 years.
Interest Rate Swap
On October 20, 2016, we entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap agreement to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases related to a portion of our tranche B term loan facility.
The total notional amount of the interest rate swap was $225,000 as of June 29, 2019.
The swap agreement expires April 3, 2021.
As a result of this agreement, every month we pay fixed interest at 1.256% in exchange for interest received at one month U.S. LIBOR.
The market value of the interest rate swap as of June 29, 2019 was an asset of $1,664.
The interest rate swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge.
As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of June 29, 2019, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $1,391.
Foreign Currency Balance Sheet Derivatives
We also use foreign currency derivative contracts to maintain the functional currency value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional foreign currencies.
The gains and losses related to the changes in the market value of these derivative contracts are included in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding foreign currency balance sheet derivative contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $94,824 and $90,816, respectively.
Upon netting offsetting contracts by counterparty banks to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding as of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018 was $27,833 and $28,271, respectively.
As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $225 and a net asset of $91, respectively.
Tranche B Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility
We have a credit agreement with U.S. Bank National Association and HSBC Bank USA, National Association as Co-Documentation Agents, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Syndication Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
as Administrative Agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.
and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as Joint Bookrunners and Joint Lead Arrangers (the Credit Agreement).
The Credit Agreement as amended provides for senior secured credit facilities consisting of a $150,000 revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility), which expires on July 5, 2022, and a $460,000 tranche B term loan facility (the Term Facility) which expires on July 5, 2023.
The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility can be drawn upon to refinance existing indebtedness, for working capital and for other general corporate purposes, up to a maximum of $150,000.
The Term Facility amortizes in equal quarterly installments equal to 1% of the original principal amount.
The proceeds of the Term Facility were used for financing the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB) in fiscal year 2016.
Borrowings on the Revolving Credit Facility were used for financing the acquisition of E2M Technologies B.V. (E2M) in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, in conjunction with the E2M acquisition, we entered into a third amendment to the Credit Agreement to increase the borrowing capacity on the Revolving Credit Facility from $120,000 to $150,000 and extend the expiration date of the Revolving Credit Facility from July 5, 2021 to July 5, 2022.
Additionally, the required performance levels under certain financial covenants were modified.
During the nine months ended June 29, 2019, we incurred debt financing costs of $541 as a result of this amendment which were capitalized in current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The primary categories of borrowing include Alternate Base Rate (ABR) Borrowings (ABR Term Loans and ABR Revolving Loans), Swingline Loans and Eurocurrency Borrowings (Eurocurrency Term Loans and Eurocurrency Revolving Loans), each as defined in the Credit Agreement.
ABR Borrowings and Swingline Loans made in U.S. dollars under the Credit Agreement
bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement).
The ABR is defined as the greater of (a) the Prime Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day, (b) the New York Federal Reserve Bank (NYFRB) rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day plus ½ of 1.00%, or (c) the Adjusted LIBOR (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for a one-month interest period in dollars on such day plus 1.00%.
The ABR for ABR Term Loans shall not be less than 1.75% per annum.
The Applicable Rate for any ABR Revolving Loans will be based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date.
As of June 29, 2019, the Applicable Rate for ABR Term Loans was 2.25% per annum.
Eurocurrency Borrowings made under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted LIBOR Rate plus the Applicable Rate.
The Adjusted LIBOR Rate is defined as an interest rate per annum equal to (a) the LIBOR Rate for such interest period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement).
The Applicable Rate for any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan is based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date.
The Adjusted LIBOR Rate for Eurocurrency Term Loans shall not be less than 0.75% per annum.
Based on our leverage ratio as of June 29, 2019, the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Revolving Loans was 3.00%.
As of June 29, 2019, the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Term Loans was 3.25% per annum, plus the applicable Adjusted LIBOR Rate of 2.41%.
The weighted average interest rate on Term Facility debt during the nine months ended June 29, 2019 was 5.67%.
As of June 29, 2019, there was $80,391 of outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility which is included in long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of September 29, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility.
We had outstanding letters of credit drawn from the Revolving Credit Facility totaling $22,580 and $20,448 as of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively, leaving approximately $47,029 and $99,552, respectively, of unused borrowing capacity.
Commitment fees are payable on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility at rates between 0.25% and 0.40% based on our leverage ratio.
During the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019, commitment fees incurred totaled $52 and $176, respectively.
During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, commitment fees incurred totaled $94 and $250, respectively.
The Credit Agreement governing the Term Facility requires us to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, depending on the leverage ratio with (a) up to 50% of the our annual Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of (i) certain asset sales and casualty and condemnation events, subject to reinvestment rights and certain other exceptions; and (ii) any incurrence or issuance of certain debt, other than debt permitted under the Credit Agreement.
We may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans under the Term Facility at any time without premium or penalty.
All obligations under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of our existing wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries, and are secured, subject to certain exceptions, by substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiary guarantors.
Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees, and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults).
The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense.
These covenants restrict our ability to purchase outstanding shares of our common stock.
As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we were in compliance with these financial covenants.
See Note 7 for additional information on the fair value of the tranche B term loan and the TEU debt.
Interest Rate Swap
On October 20, 2016, in order to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases on our variable rate debt, we entered into a variable to fixed amortizing interest rate swap.
See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
NOTE 10 STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
We compensate our officers, directors and employees with stock-based compensation under the 2017 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2017 Plan) approved by our shareholders and administered under the supervision of our Board of Directors.
As of June 29, 2019, a total of 968 shares were available for issuance under the 2017 Plan.
We make an annual stock grant under the 2017 Plan of stock options, restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units, as well as stock grants throughout the fiscal year.
For fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, the annual stock grant occurred in December 2018, April 2018 and April 2017, respectively.
Stock Options
During the nine months ended June 29, 2019, 231 stock options were granted at a weighted average fair value of $9.91.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, 245 stock options were granted at a weighted average fair value of $11.10.
Restricted Stock Units and Performance Restricted Stock Units
We award restricted stock units to directors and key employees and performance restricted stock units to key employees.
During the nine months ended June 29, 2019, we granted 129 restricted stock units and 40 performance restricted stock units to directors, officers and employees.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, we granted 109 restricted stock units and 29 performance restricted stock units.
The fair value of the restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units granted during the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 was $46.67 and $49.63, respectively, representing the market value of our shares as of the date of grant less the present value of estimated foregone dividends over the vesting period.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Our U.S. employees are eligible to participate in the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2012 ESPP) approved by our shareholders.
As of June 29, 2019, 599 shares were available for issuance under the 2012 ESPP.
During the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, we issued 16 and 24 shares, respectively, under the 2012 ESPP at a weighted average price per share of $34.11 and $44.39, respectively.
NOTE 11 INCOME TAXES
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) was enacted into law on December 22, 2017 and made significant changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act lowered the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and prompted various other changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law, including the establishment of a territorial-style system for taxing foreign-source income of domestic multinational corporations and a one-time deemed repatriation tax on untaxed foreign earnings.
The Tax Act resulted in a U.S. federal blended statutory rate of 24.5% for fiscal year 2018 and a rate of 21.0% for fiscal year 2019.
As of December 29, 2018, we completed our accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act at the conclusion of the one-year measurement period.
As a result, the income tax provision for the three months ended December 29, 2018 includes certain discrete benefits of $1,293 for Tax Act measurement period adjustments.
The discrete benefits relate to $1,297 of additional dividends received deduction for certain foreign tax credits included in the mandatory deemed repatriation tax calculation, partially offset by $4 of expense for other Tax Act measurement period adjustments.
The additional dividends received deduction is based on our assessment of the treatment under the applicable provisions of the Tax Act as written and enacted during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The Department of the Treasury provided regulatory updates during the three months ended June 29, 2019, causing us to change our assessment of the benefit associated with the dividends received deduction, and in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 to reverse the entire benefit of $1,297 that was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to certain discrete benefits in the prior year for the estimated impact of the Tax Act.
Excluding the impact of certain discrete benefits in the prior year, the effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 decreased as compared to the same prior year period.
Factors that affected the effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 included impacts of the Tax Act, such as elimination of the domestic manufacturing deduction and the implementation of the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provision.
These increases were offset by favorable aspects of the Tax Act, such as the decrease in the U.S. income tax rate and provisions for
incentivizing foreign-derived intangible income (FDII).
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we made an accounting policy election to treat the future tax impacts of the GILTI provisions of the Tax Act as a period cost to the extent applicable.
The income tax benefit for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 included certain discrete benefits of $25,378 for the estimated impact of the Tax Act.
The discrete benefits related to $32,264 of estimated benefit from the remeasurement of our estimated net deferred tax liabilities, partially offset by $6,886 of estimated expense associated with the mandatory deemed repatriation tax.
The income tax benefit for fiscal year 2018 included certain discrete benefits of $25,008 for the estimated impact of the Tax Act.
The discrete benefits primarily related to $31,647 of estimated benefit from the remeasurement of our estimated net deferred tax liabilities, partially offset by $6,639 of estimated expense associated with the mandatory deemed repatriation tax.
As of June 29, 2019, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $5,745, of which $3,269 would favorably affect our effective tax rate, if recognized.
As of September 29, 2018, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $6,158, of which $3,740 would favorably affect our effective tax rate, if recognized.
As of June 29, 2019, we do not expect significant changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months.
NOTE 12 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Tangible Equity Units
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we issued 1,150 TEUs in a registered public offering primarily to finance the acquisition of PCB, to repay amounts outstanding under our existing revolving credit facility and to pay related costs, fees and expenses.
Total proceeds, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses were $110,926.
Each TEU has a stated amount of $100 per TEU and is comprised of a prepaid stock purchase contract and a senior amortizing note having a final installment payment date of July 1, 2019.
We allocated the proceeds from the issuance of the TEUs between equity and debt based on the relative fair values of the respective components of each TEU.
The fair value of the prepaid stock purchase contracts, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was recorded in additional paid-in capital in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Underwriting discounts, commissions and other costs directly associated with the TEU-related debt were amortized using the effective interest rate method over the three-year term of the instrument.
1 The fair value price allocation between equity and debt for each TEU was determined using a discounted cash flow model.
Other expenses include direct and incremental costs related to the issuance of the TEUs.
Equity Component
Unless converted earlier at the option of the holder, each prepaid stock purchase contract automatically settle on July 1, 2019.
If converted prior to the automatic settlement date at the option of the holder, the minimum of 1.9841 shares of our common stock are delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract.
On the automatic settlement date, a minimum of 1.9841 shares and a maximum of 2.3810 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment based upon the applicable market value discussed below, will be delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract at the settlement date.
The "applicable market value" is defined as the average of the daily volume-weighted average price of the common stock on each of the 20 consecutive trading days beginning on, and including, the 23rd scheduled trading day immediately preceding July 1, 2019.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 473 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 939 shares of our common stock.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 394 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 781 shares of our common stock.
During fiscal year 2018, no holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component of our outstanding TEUs.
Subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, on July 1, 2019, the remaining 283 outstanding TEUs were converted at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of approximately 560 shares of our common stock.
Debt Component
The amortizing senior note was issued with an initial principal amount of $27,386, or $23.8136 per TEU.
Equal quarterly cash installments of $2.1875 per amortizing note are paid, which in the aggregate are equivalent to a 8.75% cash distribution per year with respect to each $100 stated amount per TEU.
Each installment constitutes a payment of interest and partial repayment of principal.
On July 1, 2019, subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, the final installment was paid.
Earnings Per Common Share
The TEUs have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share.
The 1.9841 minimum shares to be issued are included in the calculation of basic weighted average shares outstanding.
The 0.3969 difference between the minimum shares and the 2.3810 maximum shares are potentially dilutive, and accordingly, are included in our diluted earnings per share on a pro rata basis to the extent the applicable market value is higher than the reference price but less than the threshold appreciation price.
See Note 13 for additional information regarding the calculation of earnings per share.
Capped Calls
In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935.
The initial Capped Calls were for 2,282 equivalent shares of our common stock with a strike price of $50.40, a cap price of $58.80 and an expiration date of July 1, 2019.
The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and could be settled as the TEUs were early converted or settled upon expiration on July 1, 2019 (Capped Call Expiration).
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we settled approximately 10% of the Capped Calls, which resulted in us receiving and retiring 12 shares of our common stock.
No Capped Calls were settled during the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and fiscal year 2018.
On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls.
Per the Capped Call Agreements, the outstanding Capped Calls are for 2,054 equivalent shares of our common stock with a strike price of $50.40 and a cap price of $57.97.
The Capped Calls will be automatically settled upon Capped Call Expiration in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019 with shares of our common stock based on the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements.
As of June 29, 2019, the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, which will be realized if the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements is at or below $50.40 or at $57.97, respectively, upon Capped Call Expiration.
NOTE 13 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the daily weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period.
The TEUs are assumed to be settled at the minimum settlement amount of 1.9841 shares per TEU when calculating weighted-average common shares outstanding for purposes of basic earnings per share.
Using the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share includes the potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock-based compensation options and grants.
The potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock options is determined based on the average market price for the period.
For diluted earnings per share, the TEUs are assumed to be settled at a conversion factor based on our daily volume-weighted average price per share of our common stock for the 20 consecutive trading days preceding the end of the current fiscal quarter not to exceed 2.3810 shares of common stock per TEU.
Under the treasury stock method, shares associated with certain stock options have been excluded from the diluted weighted average shares outstanding calculation because the exercise of those options would lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution.
As a result, stock options to acquire 835 and 667 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the three months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively.
Stock options to acquire 812 and 548 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively.
In connection with the pricing of the TEUs, we purchased capped calls.
The capped calls will not be reflected in the calculation of diluted earnings per share until settled as they will lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution.
See Note 12 for additional information on our equity instruments.
NOTE 14 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
Other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders' equity, consists of foreign currency translation adjustments, gains or losses on derivative instruments and defined benefit pension plan adjustments.
Change in classification of actuarial loss on defined benefit pension plan related to the adoption of ASU No.
2017-07 in fiscal year 2019.
See Note 2 for additional information on the impact of adoption.
NOTE 15 BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
In evaluating each segment's performance, our Chief Executive Officer focuses on income from operations.
This measure excludes interest income and expense, income taxes and other non-operating items.
Corporate expenses, including costs associated with various support functions such as human resources, information technology, legal, finance and accounting, and general and administrative costs are allocated to the reportable segments on the basis of revenue.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 and in Note 3 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Intersegment revenue is based on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the reportable segments.
All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at consolidated financial results.
NOTE 16  BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS
The allocation of purchase price consideration is considered preliminary as of June 29, 2019 with provisional amounts primarily related to inventory for customer projects in various stages of completion, intangible assets and certain tax related items included as our allocation process has not been finalized.
We expect to finalize the allocation of purchase price as soon as possible, but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
The preliminary fair value of the acquired intangible assets was $43,989.
The acquired intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over the useful lives identified in the table above.
NOTE 17 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
Issuance of Senior Unsecured Notes
On July 16, 2019, we issued $350,000 in aggregate principal amount of 5.750% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (the Notes).
The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of July 16, 2019 among us, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the Indenture).
The Notes will mature on August 15, 2027.
Interest will accrue at the rate of 5.750% per annum and will be payable semi-annually on each February 15 and August 15, with the first interest payment due on February 15, 2020.
We used the net proceeds after discounts and expenses of approximately $344,000 from this offering to repay all outstanding debt under the Revolving Credit Facility, to repay a portion of the Term Facility and for general corporate purposes.
Termination of Interest Rate Swap
In connection with the repayment of a portion of the Term Facility, we terminated the associated interest rate swap.
As of June 29, 2019, the interest rate swap had a total notional amount of $225,000.
The market value of the interest rate swap as of June 29, 2019 was an asset of $1,664.
See Note 8 for additional information on our interest rate swap.
Purchase of Assets
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
We are subject to various claims, legal actions and complaints arising in the ordinary course of business.
We are not presently a party to any litigation the outcome of which we believe, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors
A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.
The information below includes additional and updated risks relating to our $350,000 aggregate principal amount 5.750% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (the Notes) and other indebtedness.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face.
Additional risks not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.
Our level and terms of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and take advantage of new business opportunities and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments.
As of June 29, 2019, we had $468,357 outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities.
Giving pro forma effect to the issuance of the Notes on July 16, 2019, as of June 29, 2019 we would have had $350,000 in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding, approximately $174,000 outstanding under our Tranche B term loan facility and no amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility.
See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for changes to our capital structure incurred subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
•increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;
•requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow used in operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; therefore, reducing our liquidity and our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;
•exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, and corresponding increased interest expense, because future borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities will be at variable rates of interest;
•reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes due to the costs and expenses associated with such debt;
•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes;
•limiting our ability to adjust to changing marketplace conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have less debt; and
•potentially causing us to fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments, which, among other things, require us to maintain specified financial ratios, which failure could, if not cured or waived, have a material adverse effect on our ability to fulfill our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and the Notes and on our business and prospects generally.
In addition, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs the Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including limitations on our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness (including guarantee obligations); incur liens; engage in mergers, consolidations and certain other fundamental changes; dispose of assets; make advances, investments and loans; engage in sale and leaseback transactions; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; pay dividends, distributions and other payments in respect of capital stock; repurchase or retire capital stock, warrants or options; and engage in other actions that we may believe are advisable or necessary for our business.
As a result of these restrictions, we will be limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to capitalize on available business opportunities.
Further, our tranche B term loan facility is also subject to mandatory prepayments in certain circumstances and requires a prepayment of a certain percentage of our excess cash flow.
Any future mandatory prepayments will reduce our cash available for other purposes and could impact our ability to reinvest in other areas of our business.
There are no assurances that we will maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium and interest on our indebtedness.
If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.
These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity.
In the event of a default under any of our indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could elect to declare all the funds borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which in turn could result in cross-defaults under our other indebtedness.
The lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could also elect to terminate their commitments thereunder and cease making further loans, and such lenders could institute foreclosure proceedings against their collateral, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.
Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.
Our senior secured credit facilities bear, and other indebtedness we may incur in the future may bear, interest at a variable rate.
As a result, at any given time interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities and any other variable rate debt could be higher or lower than current levels.
If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and therefore net income and associated cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.
Increases in interest rates may directly impact the amount of interest we are required to pay and reduce earnings accordingly.
In addition, recent developments in tax policy as a part of the Tax Act, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for a portion of the interest paid on outstanding indebtedness, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity.
Despite our current level of indebtedness, the terms of our existing indebtedness allow us, under certain circumstances, to incur substantially more debt, incur substantial ordinary course operating obligations, and enter into other transactions, which would increase our leverage and further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above.
We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future.
Although the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs the senior unsecured notes contain restrictions on incurring additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions.
Additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.
In addition, these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as certain trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments.
To the extent we incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, the risks described herein may increase.
