Item 2.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
•Overview
•Financial Results
•Cash Flow Comparison
•Liquidity and Capital Resources
•Off-balance Sheet Arrangements
•Critical Accounting Policies
•Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
•Other Matters
•Forward-looking Statements
Overview
MTS Systems Corporation's testing and simulation hardware, software and service solutions help customers accelerate and improve their design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures.
Our high-performance sensors provide measurements of vibration, pressure, position, force and sound in a variety of applications.
As of September 29, 2018, we had 3,400 employees and revenue of $778,032 for fiscal year 2018.
Acquisition
On November 21, 2018, we acquired E2M Technologies B.V. (E2M) for a cash purchase price of $80,287.
We funded the acquisition of E2M through borrowings on our Revolving Credit Facility.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the acquisition of E2M.
Financing
On November 21, 2018, we amended the Credit Agreement to increase the size of our Revolving Credit Facility from $120,000 to $150,000 and to extend the expiration date to July 5, 2022.
The size of the Revolving Credit Facility was increased to finance the purchase of E2M.
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the amendment to the Credit Agreement.
Conversion of 8.75% Tangible Equity Units (TEUs)
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 394 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 781 shares of our common stock.
Foreign Currency
Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our financial results are principally exposed to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Chinese yuan.
A change in foreign exchange rates could positively or negatively affect our reported financial results.
The discussion below quantifies the impact of foreign currency translation on our financial results for the periods discussed.
Adoption of New Revenue Recognition Standard
In fiscal year 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new revenue standard" or "ASC 606").
See Note 2 and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Income Statements and Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Terms
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Financial Results
Total Company
Results of Operations
The following tables compare results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation, the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and restructuring costs incurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
2 The Acquisition column includes revenues and costs from the acquisition of E2M and costs incurred as part of the acquisition of E2M.
See Notes 3, 16 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on the new revenue standard, restructuring and related costs, and the E2M acquisition, respectively.
Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased 3.6% primarily due to increased compensation expense to support sales growth, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, E2M expenses and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, selling and marketing expense increased 5.5%.
Selling and marketing expense for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 4.2% primarily due to increased compensation and commissions expense to support sales growth and the addition of E2M expenses, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, E2M expenses and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, selling and marketing expense increased 5.5%.
Income from operations for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 41.4% and 31.9%, respectively, primarily due to increased gross profit on higher revenue volume and the impact of the E2M acquisition, partially offset by higher compensation expense and acquisition-related expenses.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 36.2% and 31.4%, respectively.
Interest expense, net for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to an increase in interest expense on the revolving credit facility drawn on in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 to fund the acquisition of E2M, which was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense related to lower balances on the tranche B term loan, as well as current year favorable effects of our interest rate swap.
The decrease in other income (expense), net for the three months ended June 29, 2019 was primarily driven by a relative increase in losses on foreign currency transactions, partially offset by an increase in rental income.
The increase in other income (expense), net for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 was primarily driven by an increase in rental income, partially offset by a relative increase in losses on foreign currency transactions.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to higher earnings before tax and the reversal of a $1,297 discrete tax benefit originally recorded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) as a result of regulatory updates issued during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to certain discrete benefits of $25,378 in the prior year for the estimated impact of the Tax Act.
Excluding the impact of these discrete benefits, the effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 would have been 15.2%.
The decrease in the effective income tax rate was primarily due to the implementation of the lower 21% U.S. statutory rate for fiscal year 2019 as compared to the blended statutory rate of 24.5% effective in fiscal year 2018.
Segment Results
Results of Operations
2 The Acquisition column includes revenues and costs from the acquisition of E2M and costs incurred as part of the acquisition of E2M.
See Notes 3, 16 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on the new revenue standard, restructuring and related costs, and the E2M acquisition, respectively.
Revenue for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 27.8% and 23.3%, respectively, primarily driven by volume growth across all sectors from conversion of robust beginning-of-year backlog and the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The increase was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and the E2M acquisition, revenue increased 23.7% and 19.4%, respectively.
Gross profit for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased 21.0% primarily due to higher revenue volume and the gross profit contribution from the E2M acquisition, partially offset by increased compensation expense.
Gross margin declined 1.7 percentage points primarily driven by increased compensation expense and lower gross margin contribution from product mix, partially offset by leverage on higher revenue volume, lower warranty expense and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, gross profit increased 14.8% and gross margin declined 2.4 percentage points.
Gross profit for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 19.2% primarily due to higher revenue volume and the gross profit contribution from the E2M acquisition, partially offset by increased compensation expense.
Gross margin declined 1.0 percentage point primarily driven by increased compensation expense and the $1,141 E2M acquisition inventory adjustment, partially offset by leverage on higher revenue volume, strong project execution and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit increased 14.3% and gross margin declined 1.4 percentage points.
Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased 5.6% primarily due to higher compensation and bad debt expense, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, E2M expenses and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, selling and marketing expense increased 7.5%.
Selling and marketing expense for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 6.1% primarily due to higher commissions and compensation expense, as well as the addition of E2M expenses, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, E2M expenses and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, selling and marketing expense increased 6.9%.
General and administrative expense for the three months ended June 29, 2019 declined 0.8% primarily driven by lower compensation expense, partially offset by the addition of E2M expenses.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, E2M expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, general and administrative expense decreased 13.3%.
General and administrative expense for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 9.0% primarily driven by the addition of E2M expenses and acquisition-related expenses, partially offset by lower compensation expense.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, E2M expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, general and administrative expense decreased 3.1%.
Income from operations for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 146.1% primarily due to increased gross profit on higher revenue volume, partially offset by higher compensation and commissions expense.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 125.5%.
Sensors Segment
Results of Operations
The following tables compare results of operations for Sensors, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation.
See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our reportable segments.
Revenue for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased 6.6% primarily driven by growth in both the Sensors test sector from a multi-year contract with the U.S. Department of Defense and the Sensors industrial sector from strength in the energy market, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 8.9%.
Revenue for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 3.4% primarily driven by growth in the Sensors test sector from a multi-year contract with the U.S. Department of Defense, growth in the Sensors position sector in the first half of the fiscal year and growth in the Sensors industrial sector from strength in the energy market, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 5.6%.
Gross profit for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 2.8% and 0.4%, respectively, primarily due to increased revenue volume, partially offset by increased compensation expense and the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Gross margin declined 1.9 and 1.5 percentage points, respectively, primarily driven by increased compensation expense during the ramp-up of manufacturing capacity to support both new products and growth in order volume in a tight labor market.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, gross profit increased 4.7% and 2.3%, respectively, and gross margin declined 2.0 and 1.6 percentage, respectively.
Selling and marketing expense for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 1.2% and 2.1%, respectively, primarily driven by increased compensation from headcount additions to support sales growth, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, selling and marketing expense increased 3.2% and 3.9%, respectively.
General and administrative expense for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 20.0% and 8.5%, respectively, primarily driven by higher professional fees and compensation expense.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, general and administrative expense increased 20.8% and 9.3%, respectively.
Income from operations for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 declined 6.8% and 8.0%, respectively, primarily due to increased compensation expense, the unfavorable impact of currency translation and higher professional fees, partially offset by increased gross profit on higher revenue volume.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, income from operations decreased 4.0% and 5.1%, respectively.
Cash Flow Comparison
Operating Activities
The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in cash used by working capital associated with timing fluctuations from accounts receivable payments received and unbilled accounts receivable accruals, accounts payable payments, advanced payments received from customers, and inventory purchases, as well as a decrease in net income due to the remeasurement of our estimated deferred tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Act in fiscal year 2018.
This decrease was partially offset by a reduction in cash used by deferred income taxes due to the Tax Act in fiscal year 2018, an increase in cash provided by other assets and liabilities related to accrued project costs, and a decrease in cash used by payroll-related accruals.
Investing Activities
The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 as well as an increase in cash used to purchase property and equipment for continued strategic investments in the business.
Financing Activities
The increase in cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility used to fund the acquisition of E2M and a decrease in cash used for long-term debt payments due to required annual Excess Cash Flow payments made in fiscal year 2018.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
We had cash and cash equivalents of $75,735 as of June 29, 2019.
Of this amount, $21,623 was located in North America, $28,601 in Europe and $25,511 in Asia.
Repatriation of certain foreign earnings is restricted by local law.
The North American cash balance was primarily invested in bank deposits.
The cash balances in Europe and Asia were primarily invested in money market funds and bank deposits.
In accordance with our investment policy, we place cash equivalent investments with issuers who have high-quality investment credit ratings.
In addition, we limit the amount of investment exposure we have with any particular issuer.
Our investment objectives are to preserve principal, maintain liquidity and achieve the best available return consistent with our primary objectives of safety and liquidity.
As of June 29, 2019, we held no short-term investments.
As a result of the transition tax related to the enactment of the Tax Act, we are able to repatriate cash held in our foreign subsidiaries without such funds being subject to additional federal income tax liability.
We plan to continue to repatriate certain amounts of our existing offshore cash and future earnings back to the U.S.
As of June 29, 2019, our capital structure was comprised of $31,634 in short-term debt, $440,767 in long-term debt and $494,539 in shareholders' equity.
Long-term debt included $80,391 on our Revolving Credit Facility used to finance the acquisition of E2M.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets also included $9,885 of unamortized debt issuance costs as of June 29, 2019.
Total interest-bearing debt as of June 29, 2019 was $472,401.
We have a credit agreement with a consortium of financial institutions (the Credit Agreement) that provides for senior secured credit facilities consisting of a Revolving Credit Facility and a Term Facility.
The maturity date of the Revolving Credit Facility is July 5, 2022 and the maturity date of the loans under the Term Facility is July 5, 2023, unless a term loan lender agrees to extend the maturity date pursuant to a loan modification agreement made in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement also requires mandatory prepayments on our Term Facility in certain circumstances, including the potential for an annual required prepayment of a certain percentage of our excess cash flow.
Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults).
The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense.
These covenants restrict our ability to pay dividends and purchase outstanding shares of common stock.
As of June 29, 2019, we were in compliance with these financial covenants.
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item I of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our financing arrangements.
Shareholders' equity increased by $16,607 during the nine months ended June 29, 2019 primarily due to $38,246 net income and $7,515 stock-based compensation.
The increase was partially offset by $16,355 dividends declared and $6,885 other comprehensive loss.
Also contributing to the decrease was a cumulative effect of accounting change reduction to our opening retained earnings balance of $6,227 related to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
As of June 29, 2019, we believe our current capital resources will be sufficient to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and operations for the foreseeable future, including at least the next twelve months.
See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for changes to our capital structure incurred subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Off-balance Sheet Arrangements
As of June 29, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.
Critical Accounting Policies
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported, giving due consideration to materiality, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of any contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
We regularly review our estimates and assumptions, which are based on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
For further information, see "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" under Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.
For a discussion of our critical accounting policies, see "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.
The following critical accounting policy has been updated since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.
Revenue Recognition (Over Time)
Revenue is recognized either over time as work progresses or at a point-in-time, dependent upon contract-specific terms and the pattern of transfer of control of the product or service to the customer.
Contracts with equipment revenue recognized over time use costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying the performance obligation.
Incurred cost represents work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby best depicts, the transfer of control to the customer.
Equipment contract costs include materials, component parts, labor and overhead costs.
For contracts
recognized over time, we estimate the profit on a contract as the difference between the total estimated revenue and expected costs to complete a contract and recognize that profit over the life of the contract.
Contract estimates are based on various assumptions to determine the outcome of future events that may span several years.
These assumptions include labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, and internal and subcontractor performance.
As a significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts, we review and update our contract-related estimates regularly.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts under the cumulative catch-up method.
Under this method, the impact of the adjustment on profit recorded to date is recognized in the period the adjustment is identified.
Revenue and profit in future periods of contract performance is recognized using the adjusted estimate.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the total loss in the period it is identified.
Our review of contract-related estimates has not resulted in adjustments that are significant to our results of operations.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2 and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Other Matters
Dividends
Our dividend policy is to maintain a payout ratio that allows dividends to increase in conjunction with the long-term growth of earnings per share, while sustaining dividends through economic cycles.
Our dividend practice is to target, over time, a payout ratio of approximately 25% of net earnings per share.
We have historically paid dividends to holders of our common stock on a quarterly basis.
The declaration and payment of future dividends will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, our earnings, financial condition, debt repayment obligations, business development needs and regulatory considerations and are at the discretion of our Board of Directors.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q including, but not limited to, the discussion under Item 2, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act).
In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act.
Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, ROIC, Adjusted EBITDA, net income or loss, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, our capital structure, the adequacy of our liquidity and reserves, the anticipated level of expenditures required and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services, our restructuring initiatives, merger or acquisition activity and the potential impact of newly acquired businesses; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements; (iv) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators or statements relating to our order cancellation history, our ability to convert our backlog of undelivered orders into revenue, the timing of purchases, competitive advantages and growth in end markets; and (v) statements regarding our products and their characteristics, fluctuations in the costs of raw materials for products, our geographic footprint, performance, sales potential or effect in the hands of customers.
Words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "targeted," "should," "potential," "goals," "strategy," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 and in Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy.
Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors.
Therefore, you should consider these forward-looking statements with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances.
You should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 and in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
We purchase common stock from time to time to mitigate dilution related to new shares issued for employee compensation such as stock options, restricted stock units, performance restricted stock units and for employee stock purchase plan activity, as well as to return to shareholders capital not immediately required to fund ongoing operations.
Share Purchase Plan
Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a purchase authorization of 2,000 shares.
Authority over pricing and timing under the authorization has been delegated to management.
The share purchase authorization has no expiration date.
We made no share purchases during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
As of June 29, 2019, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.
Capped Calls
In connection with the pricing of the tangible equity units (TEUs) sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935.
On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls.
Per the Capped Call Agreements, the outstanding Capped Calls will automatically settle upon Capped Call Expiration in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
As of June 29, 2019 the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, subject to market conditions.
See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our equity instruments.
Item 6.
Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
