Item 2.  
Oracle provides products and services that address enterprise information technology (IT) environments. Our products and services include applications and infrastructure offerings that are delivered worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models. These models include on-premise deployments, cloud-based deployments, and hybrid deployments (an approach that combines both on-premise and cloud-based deployment) such as our Oracle Cloud at Customer offering (an instance of Oracle Cloud in a customer’s own data center). Accordingly, we offer choice and flexibility to our customers and facilitate the product, service and deployment combinations that best suit our customers’ needs. Through our worldwide sales force and Oracle Partner Network, we sell to customers all over the world including businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. 
Cloud and License Business  
Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 83% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.  
cloud services revenues, which provide customers access to Oracle Cloud applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. The majority of our Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are generally billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed at the customer’s option; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed over time. 
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers deploy within cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments. Our cloud license and on-premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs. The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues due to the point in time nature of revenue recognition for license transactions, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the contractual terms. Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase and renew license support contracts, as described above. 
Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy our applications and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy. In recent periods, customer demand for our applications and infrastructure technologies delivered through our Oracle Cloud Services has increased. To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications and infrastructure licenses and the related license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads. We expect these trends to continue. 
expected growth in our cloud services and license support offerings; and 
We believe these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and license products and services. 
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term. The historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery, over those four quarterly periods.  
Hardware Business  
Our hardware business, which represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support. Each hardware product and its related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product and its related software are delivered to the customer and ownership is  
transferred to the customer. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. Our hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products and associated software products such as Oracle Solaris. Our hardware support offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are entered into and renewed at the option of the customer, are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual terms. 
Our services business, which represented 8% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. We believe that our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience, broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services offerings include consulting services, advanced customer support services and education services. Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and license and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are affected by many factors including, our strategy for, and the competitive position of, our services; customer demand for our cloud and license and hardware offerings and the associated services for these offerings; general economic conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; personnel reductions in our customers’ IT departments; and tighter controls over customer discretionary spending.  
Acquisitions 
Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. Historically, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies.  
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  
Revenue Recognition;  
Business Combinations;  
Accounting for Income Taxes; and 
Legal and Other Contingencies.  
Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information  
Constant Currency Presentation 
Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of each of our businesses’ revenues and expenses. As a result, each businesses’ revenues and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2019, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on August 31, 2019 and 2018, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.11 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 (using 1.11 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.17 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 (using 1.17 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 using the May 31, 2019 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. 
Total Revenues and Operating Expenses 
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues, which were partially offset by decreases in our hardware revenues and services revenues. The constant currency increase in our cloud and license revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud deployment models and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud and license support contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services. The constant currency decreases in our hardware revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 were due to a reduction in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of customers that purchased hardware support contracts. The constant currency decrease in our services revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was attributable to decreases in our consulting services and education services revenues, partially offset by increases in our advanced customer services revenues. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 2%, 44% and 54%, respectively, to the growth in our total revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2020.  
In constant currency, our total operating margin and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 due to the increase in our total revenues.  
Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges 
In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud services and license support contracts assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize the cloud services and license support revenue amounts as presented in the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations. To the extent customers for which these contractual obligations pertain renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts’ values over the respective contracts’ renewal periods. 
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.  
Cloud and License Business 
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications and infrastructure technologies through various deployment models including license support offerings; Oracle Cloud Services offerings; and cloud license and on-premise license offerings. License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses, are purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year. Our cloud services deliver applications and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis via cloud-based deployment models that we develop, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support, and revenues are generally recognized over the contractual term, which is generally one to three years, or in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market certain of our offerings through indirect channels. Costs associated with our cloud and license business are included in cloud services and license support expenses, and sales and marketing expenses. These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs. 
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total revenues from our cloud and license business increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the corresponding prior year period, due to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues, which was primarily due to increased customer purchases of and renewals of cloud-based services and license support contracts in recent periods for which we delivered such services during the first quarter of fiscal 2020. In constant currency, our total applications revenues and our total infrastructure revenues each grew during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as customers continued to deploy our applications technologies and infrastructure technologies through a wide array of different deployment models that we offer to enable customer choice. The Americas region contributed 33%, the EMEA region contributed 33%, and the Asia Pacific region contributed 34% of the constant currency revenues growth for this business during the first quarter of fiscal 2020. 
In constant currency, total cloud and license expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the corresponding prior year period, due to higher cloud services and license support expenses and higher sales and marketing expenses, each of which increased primarily due to higher employee related expenses from higher headcount and due to higher technology infrastructure expenses.  
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license segment’s total margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to the increase in revenues for this segment, while total margin as a percentage of revenues remained flat. 
Hardware Business 
Our hardware business’ revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, server, storage, and industry-specific hardware. The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term, which is generally one year. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels such as independent distributors and value-added resellers and we also market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force. Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings. 
In constant currency, total margin for our hardware segment decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to the decline in revenues for this segment. In constant currency, total margin as a percentage of revenues for this segment increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to lower expenses. 
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to decreases in our consulting services and education services revenues, partially offset by increases in advanced customer services revenues. Constant currency decreases in revenue growth in the Americas and EMEA regions were partially offset by a constant currency increase in revenue growth in the Asia Pacific region during the first quarter of fiscal 2020. 
In constant currency, total services expenses were flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to the decrease in revenues for this business. 
Excluding stock-based compensation 
On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses were flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.  
Excluding stock-based compensation  
On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a $29 million litigation related benefit that we do not expect to recur that was recorded during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and lower stock-based compensation expenses.  
Amortization of intangible assets decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the corresponding prior year period, due to a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized, partially offset by additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions. 
On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to higher business combination adjustments, net and higher other expenses, net. These increases in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 were both primarily attributable to higher asset impairment costs related to certain right of use assets and other assets that were abandoned without future alternative use in connection with plans to improve our cost structure and operations prospectively. 
Interest expense decreased due to lower average borrowings during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to the maturities and repayments of $1.8 billion of senior notes during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and $2.0 billion of senior notes during fiscal 2019. 
On a constant currency basis, our non-operating income, net decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to lower interest income in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, which was primarily attributable to lower average cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances during the first quarter of fiscal 2020. 
Provision for income taxes increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to the absence of the net favorable impact of a change in estimate related to our adoption of the Tax Act, as recorded pursuant to SAB 118, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. This unfavorable variance to our provision for income taxes during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was partially offset by higher excess tax benefits recognized on stock-based compensation expense during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019. 
The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances held by our foreign subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss in our condensed consolidated balance sheets and is also presented as a line item in our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report). As the U.S. Dollar generally strengthened against certain major international currencies on a net basis during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased on a net basis as of August 31, 2019 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from the May 31, 2019 balance sheet date. 
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due primarily to lower net income and certain cash unfavorable changes in working capital balances during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, each relative to the corresponding prior year period. 
Net cash provided by investing activities increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 primarily due to an increase in the sales and maturities of, and a decrease in the purchases of, marketable securities and other investments during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 relative to the corresponding prior year period. 
Net cash used for financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to decreased stock repurchases as we repurchased $5.0 billion of common stock in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to $10.0 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and due to lower debt repayments in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. 
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements. In addition, we believe that we could fund our future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. 
Restricted Stock-Based Awards and Stock Options 
Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
Item 2.  
 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On September 11, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $15.0 billion. As of August 31, 2019, approximately $848 million remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Oracle Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
