fls.txt
 The statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, in reports subsequently filed by Corning with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on Forms 8-K, and related comments by management that are not historical facts or information and contain words such as “will,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “seek,” “see,” “would,” and “target” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
 Environmental Litigation.


item2.txt
 In October 2015, Corning announced a strategy and capital allocation framework (the “Framework”) that reflects the Company’s financial and operational strengths, as well as its ongoing commitment to increasing shareholder value.
The Framework outlines our leadership priorities and articulates the opportunities we see across our businesses.
We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength.
Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to sustain our leadership positions and deliver growth.
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
This strategy allows us to quickly apply our talents and repurpose our assets as needed.
 Net sales in the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $2,500 million, compared to $2,375 million in the same period in 2017.
The increase was driven by higher sales in the Optical Communications, Environmental Technologies and Life Sciences segments, up $68 million, $47 million and $22 million, respectively.
The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated net loss in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.
 We believe 2018 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework, and anticipate that segment net sales will grow to approximately $11 billion.
In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with year-over-year declines reaching mid-single digits, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns.
We expect sales growth of approximately 10% in our Environmental Technologies segment, driven by continued strength in automotive product sales, on-going improvements in the heavy-duty diesel market and from the commercial launch of gas-particulate filters.
   ·    An increase of $22 million in the Life Sciences segment, driven by higher sales in North America and China.
 Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $87 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
   ·    An increase of $18 million in corporate spending primarily related to new information technology platforms and outside legal fees.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly in the first quarter, when compared to the same period last year.
 Equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $41 million, driven largely by the absence of a $46 million gain recorded in the first quarter of 2017 resulting from the modification of long-term sales agreements with a customer of HSG.
 The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated loss before income taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.
   (1)    Refer to Note 6 ((Loss) Earnings per Common Share) to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Refer to Note 13 (Shareholders’ Equity) to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 These measures are not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“GAAP”).
For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below.
   ·    Display Technologies – manufactures glass substrates primarily for flat panel liquid crystal displays.
   ·    Optical Communications – manufactures carrier and enterprise network components for the telecommunications industry.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Corning’s disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by Corning in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Corning’s management, including Corning’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or other persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
All Rights Reserved.
All Rights Reserved.


