fls.txt
 The statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, in reports subsequently filed by Corning with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on Forms 8-K, and related comments by management that are not historical facts or information and contain words such as “will,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “seek,” “see,” “would,” and “target” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
For additional information and updates to estimated liabilities as of September 30, 2018, see Part I, Item 1, Financial Statements, Note 3 (Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees) of the Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 1 of this quarterly report, which is incorporated herein by reference.


item2.txt
The Framework outlines our leadership priorities and articulates the opportunities we see across our businesses.
We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength.
Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to extend our leadership positions and deliver growth.
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
This strategy allows us to quickly apply our talents and repurpose our assets as needed.
The increase in both periods was led by the Optical Communications segment, which increased $200 million and $409 million, respectively, due to higher sales of carrier network products in North America and Europe, an increase in sales of enterprise network products from growth in data centers and sales from 3M’s Communications Market Division which we acquired in June.
Net sales in the Display Technologies segment increased by $57 million and $23 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, with volumes exceeding the display glass market’s strong growth and more than offsetting price declines.
Net sales for Environmental Technologies increased $54 million and $155 million, respectively, driven by growth in all product categories.
Life Sciences sales increased by $8 million and $54 million, respectively, driven by higher sales across all product lines.
   ·    Lower segment net income in the All Other segment, down $8 million, resulting from continued investment in product development.
In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with moderate year-over-year declines during the fourth quarter, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns.
In the Optical Communications segment, we expect sales to increase in the high-teen percentage range, including approximately $200 million from the acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division.
We expect organic growth will improve by a low-teen percentage range driven by strong demand from carrier and enterprise network customers.
 Movements in foreign exchange rates increased Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
 Movements in foreign exchange rates decreased Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $42 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
 In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, gross margin increased by $182 million, or 17%, and $271 million, or 9%, respectively, primarily driven by an increase in sales across all operating segments.
 For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, research, development and engineering expenses increased by $105 million, or 17%, when compared to the same period last year, driven by higher costs associated with new product launches and our emerging businesses.
 In the third quarter ending September 30, 2018, equity in earnings of affiliated companies remain relatively consistent with the prior year.
 In the first three quarters of 2018, equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $46 million, driven by the absence of a $46 million gain recorded in the first quarter of 2017 resulting from the modification of long-term sales agreements with a customer of HSG.
   ·    A $48 million benefit related to an adjustment to the provisional estimate of the one-time Toll Charge recorded in 2017.
   ·    A $48 million benefit related to an adjustment to the provisional estimate of the one-time Toll Charge recorded in 2017.
 For the three months ended September 30, 2018 comprehensive income increased by $79 million when compared to the same period in 2017, due to an increase in net income of $235 million and higher unrealized gains on designated hedges of $23 million, offset by the negative impact of the change in foreign currency translation gains and losses of $181 million, driven primarily by the Japanese yen and the Korean won.
 For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 comprehensive income decreased by $965 million when compared to the same period in 2017, due to the negative impact of the change in foreign currency translation adjustments of $749 million, driven primarily by the devaluation of the Japanese yen and the Korean won, a $141 million decrease in net income and a decrease of $38 million in unrealized gains on designated hedges.
Additionally, Corning has adopted the use of constant currency reporting for our Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments for the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan and New Taiwan dollar currencies.
 Core performance measures are not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“GAAP”).


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, we have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.


