fls.txt
In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, uncertain events or assumptions, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
For additional information and updates to estimated liabilities as of June 30, 2018, see Part I, Item 1, Financial Statements, Note 3 (Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees) of the Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 1 of this quarterly report, which is incorporated herein by reference.


item2.txt
We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength.
Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to extend our leadership positions and deliver growth.
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
 Net sales in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were $2,747 million and $5,247 million, compared to $2,497 million and $4,872 million, respectively, in the same periods in 2017, driven by an increase in net sales in all segments.
The increase in both periods was led by the Optical Communications segment, which increased $141 million and $209 million, respectively, due to higher sales of carrier network products in North American and Europe, and an increase in sales of enterprise network products from growth in data centers.
Life Sciences sales increased by $24 million and $46 million, respectively, driven by higher sales across all product lines.
   ·    A decrease of $47 million in equity earnings, driven largely by the absence of a $46 million gain recorded in the first quarter of 2017 resulting from the modification of long-term sales agreements with a customer of HSG.
We anticipate Corning’s LCD glass volume will grow faster than the expected LCD glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
In the Optical Communications segment, we expect sales to increase in the high-teen percentage range with organic growth improving by a low-teen percentage range with an additional $200 million from the acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division, driven by strong demand from carrier and enterprise network customers.
 Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $50 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
   ·    An increase of $46 million in the Life Sciences segment, driven by higher sales in North America, Europe and China.
 Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $137 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
   ·    An increase of $13 million in corporate spending primarily related to new information technology platforms and outside legal fees.
 In the second quarter of June 30, 2018, equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $6 million, driven largely by the absence of gains in other equity investments.
 In the first half of 2018, equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $47 million, driven largely by the absence of a $46 million gain recorded in the first quarter of 2017 resulting from the modification of long-term sales agreements with a customer of HSG.
   ·    A $28 million benefit from the release of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets that are now considered realizable.
   ·    A $28 million benefit from the release of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets that are now considered realizable.
 For the six months ended June 30, 2018 comprehensive (loss) income decreased by $1,044 million when compared to the same period in 2017, due to a decrease in net income of $376 million, the negative impact of the change in foreign currency translation gains and losses of $568 million, driven primarily by the Japanese yen and the Korean won, and a decrease in net unrealized gains of designated hedges of $62 million.
For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below.
 Included in core earnings for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 is net periodic pension expense in the amounts of $13 million and $25 million, respectively, and $12 million and $25 million respectively.
   ·    Display Technologies – manufactures glass substrates primarily for flat panel liquid crystal displays.
   ·    Optical Communications – manufactures carrier and enterprise network components for the telecommunications industry.
   ·    Specialty Materials – manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique customer needs.
   ·    Environmental Technologies – manufactures ceramic substrates and filters for automotive and diesel emission control applications.
   ·    Life Sciences – manufactures glass and plastic labware, equipment, media and reagents enabling workflow solutions for scientific applications.


item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, we have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.


