fls.txt



item1.txt
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (TESSCO, we, or the Company), architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless systems. The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology. Approximately 97% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States. The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange. Almost all of the Company’s sales are made in United States Dollars.  
 In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables. This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses. This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.  
 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The Company adopted this standard on the first day of the 2020 fiscal year, using a modified retrospective approach. This standard resulted in the Company recording a right-of-use asset and lease liability for all leases, but otherwise the standard did not have a material impact on the financial statements. Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.   
 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The new standard changes the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement. Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, are now classified as financing activities. Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses. Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, included herein.  
 The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter and six months ended September 29, 2019 includes $391,800 and $730,700, respectively, of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter and six months ended September 30, 2018 includes $384,800 and $705,300, respectively, of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Non-cash stock-based compensation expense is primarily related to our Performance Stock Units (PSUs), Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock Options, granted or outstanding under the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stock and Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”) and 2019 Stock and Incentive Plan (the “2019 Plan” and together with the 1994 Plan, the “Plans”), which was approved at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on July 25, 2019. No additional awards may be granted under the 1994 Plan, although awards outstanding under the 1994 Plan remain outstanding and governed by its terms.  
metrics are met to a sufficient extent, the shares earned at the end of fiscal 2020 on the basis of that performance will vest in four equal installments beginning on or about May 15, 2020 and continuing on the same date in calendar 2021, 2022 and 2023, provided that the respective employee remains employed by the Company on each such date. Pursuant to the typical PSU award agreement, however, performance metrics are deemed met upon the occurrence of a change in control, and shares earned are issued earlier upon the occurrence of a change in control, or death or disability of the employee, or upon termination of the employee’s employment without cause or by the employee for good reason, as those terms are defined in the applicable PSU award agreement. In connection with his hiring as President and Chief Executive Officer on August 20, 2019, the Compensation Committee, with concurrence of the full Board of Directors, granted an additional PSU to Mr. Mukerjee, providing him with the opportunity to earn up to 6,116 shares of the Company’s common stock. This PSU was granted on the same terms as the PSUs granted in May 2019, except that this PSU was granted under the 2019 Plan and any shares earned pursuant to it on the basis of fiscal 2020 performance will vest in four equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the commencement of the employment of Mr. Mukerjee and continue in calendar 2021, 2022 and 2023 on the same date as the other PSUs vest, provided that Mr. Mukerjee remains employed by the Company on each such date.  
 On August 8, 2017, the Compensation Committee, with the concurrence of the full Board of Directors, approved the grant of an aggregate of up to 56,000 RSUs to several senior executives. The number of shares earned by a recipient is determined by multiplying the number of RSUs covered by the award by a fraction, the numerator of which is the cumulative amount of dividends (regular, ordinary and special) declared and paid, per share, on the Common Stock, over an earnings period of up to four years, and the denominator of which is $3.20. Subject to earlier issuance upon the occurrence of certain events (as described in the applicable award agreement), any earned shares are issued and distributed to the recipient upon the fourth anniversary of the award date. As of September 29, 2019, 8,000 of these 56,000 RSUs have been canceled due to employee departures, leaving 48,000 of the 56,000 RSUs outstanding. An additional 2,000 RSU’s with similar terms (but with a shorter earnings period) were awarded in fiscal 2019, and in connection with his hiring as our new President and Chief Executive Officer, the Company issued an additional RSU grant to Mr. Mukerjee under the 2019 Plan for 
 PSUs and RSUs are expensed based on the grant date fair value, calculated as the closing price of TESSCO common stock as reported by Nasdaq on the date of grant minus the present value of dividends expected to be paid on the common stock before the award vests, because dividends or dividend-equivalent amounts do not accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.   
 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”), which amended and restated the terms of a previously established secured Revolving Credit Facility with the same lenders , and which resulted in, among other modifications, an increase in the Company’s borrowing limit to up to $75 million, from the previous borrowing limit of up to $35 million. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this and the following three paragraphs have the meanings ascribed to each in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.  
 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under a Guaranty and Security Agreement previously delivered by them in connection with the secured Revolving Credit Facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising from time to time under the secured Revolving Credit Facility provided for under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, and as respects certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.   
 Borrowings may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, and as further provided in, and subject to the applicable terms of, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. As of September 29, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $35.3 million and, therefore, the Company had $39.7 million available for borrowing as of September 29, 2019, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above. The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet. As of March 31, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $14.4 million and, therefore, the Company had $60.6 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of March 31, 2019, again subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.  
resellers and integrators, which results from the consolidation of our previously identified value-added resellers, government channels and private system operator markets, and reflects implementation over the 2019 fiscal year of an enhanced go-to-market strategy. This go-to-market strategy and the corresponding consolidation of these customer markets is designed to increase sales opportunities across the consolidated markets, as well as to provide better coverage to customers and to better align territories with supplier partners.   


item2.txt
 TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems. Although we sell products to customers in many countries, approximately 97% of our sales are made to customers in the United States. We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.   
 Total Revenues. Revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased 10.6% compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2019. Revenues in our public carrier market, value-added resellers and integrators market and retail market decreased by 1.3%, 6.1% and 24.1%, respectively. The decline in the commercial segment was primarily due to a decrease in revenue in our value-added resellers and integrators market where we are not yet realizing the full benefits of our sales reorganization. The decline in the retail segment was driven by significantly lower revenues from one of our more significant retail customers following its acquisition during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, change in business model and subsequent transition of its business elsewhere, as well as ongoing overall market softness.  
 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased by 16.2% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019. This decrease was primarily due to lower sales volume combined with the impact of tariffs. Overall gross profit margin decreased from 19.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 to 18.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020. Within our commercial segment, gross profit margin in our public carrier market increased from 12.0% to 12.4% due to changes in customer mix. Gross profit margin in our value-added resellers and integrators market decreased from 24.6% to 23.8%. This decline was due to a change in product mix, including lower sales of our higher margin Ventev products in the second quarter of fiscal 2020. Within our retail segment, gross profit margin decreased from 19.3% to 16.1% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to 2019, primarily due to the impact of tariffs.  
 Selling, General, Administrative and Restructuring Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $3.7 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 18.6% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, to 18.2% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020.  
 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We had bad debt recovery, net of expense, of $107,900 and bad debt expense of $665,100 for the three months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.   
 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $244,800 for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 to $335,100 for the second quarter of fiscal 2020. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our secured Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.   
 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate increased from 28.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 to 90.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020. The increase in the effective tax rate is the result of permanent and other tax adjustments remaining consistent year over year while pre-tax income decreased year over year. The significant increase in rates is also due to a change in estimated fiscal year pre-tax earnings from the first quarter of fiscal 2020 to the second quarter of fiscal 2020, resulting in a significant adjustment in this quarter’s rate. Net income decreased 98.2% and diluted earnings per share decreased 100% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.   
 As discussed above under the heading “Business Overview and Environment,” our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and suppliers depends upon a number of factors which often differ for each relationship. Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not 
 Selling, General, Administrative and Restructuring Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $4.6 million for the first six months of fiscal 2020, compared to the first six months of fiscal 2019. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased from 18.9% for the first six months of fiscal 2019, to 19.8% for the first six months of fiscal 2020.  
 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense, net of recovery, of $27,500 and $1,021,300 for the six months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.   
 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $419,200 for the first six months of fiscal 2019 to $543,800 for the first six months of fiscal 2020. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our secured Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.   
 We used $14.0 million of net cash from operating activities for the first six months of fiscal 2020, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $3.3 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019. This fiscal 2020 outflow was driven by a net loss and an increase in inventory. Both current and potential opportunities within our public carrier business caused a significant investment in inventory.   


item4.txt
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  


part2.txt
 Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  
 Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.  
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  


