item1.txt
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (TESSCO, we, or the Company), architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless systems. The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology. Approximately 98% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States. The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange. Almost all of the Company’s sales are made in United States Dollars.  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company has identified the full population of leases. Although the Company does expect to record right-of-use assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet, it does not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. The right-of-use assets and liabilities are estimated to be less than 3% of total assets. The standard will be adopted on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.  
 The Company has changed the presentation of its returns reserve. The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet. This liability represents the obligation to return customer consideration. The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the Prepaid expense and other current assets line item of the balance sheet. The return asset value is initially measured at the former carrying amount in inventory, less any expected costs to recover the goods. The Company expects products returned by customers to be in new and salable condition, as required by our standard terms and conditions, and therefore impairment of the return asset is unlikely. Changes to the return liability are recorded as revenue adjustments and changes to the inventory asset are recorded as cost of goods sold. As of December 30, 2018, the return asset and refund liability amounts were $1.5 million and $2.0 million, respectively. Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.  
 During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Compensation Committee”) approved the grant of PSUs to select key employees, providing them with the opportunity to earn up to 71,000 shares of the Company’s common stock in the aggregate, depending initially upon whether and to the extent which certain earnings per share targets and other Company and individual performance metrics are met. These not-yet-earned PSUs have a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019), and assuming the performance metrics are met to a sufficient extent, any shares earned at the end of fiscal 2019 will vest 25% and be issued ratably on or about each of May 1 of 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, provided that the respective employees remain employed by the Company on each such date (or meets certain other criteria as prescribed in the applicable award agreement, and unless accelerated in accordance with the terms of the applicable award agreement).   
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2019 primarily related to the fiscal 2018 grant of PSUs, which had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2018). These PSUs were cancelled because the applicable fiscal 2018 performance targets were not fully satisfied. Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.  
 If all PSUs granted thus far in fiscal 2019 are assumed to be earned on account of the applicable performance metrics being fully met, or otherwise in accordance with terms of the applicable award agreement, total unrecognized compensation costs on these PSUs plus all earned but unvested PSU’s would be approximately $0.8 million, as of December 30, 2018, and would be expensed through fiscal 2022. To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2019 are not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.  
 Pursuant to the typical PSU award agreement performance metrics are deemed met upon the occurrence of a change in control, and shares earned are issued earlier upon the occurrence of a change in control, or death or disability of the participant, or upon termination of the participant’s employment without cause or by the participant for good reason, as those terms are defined in the agreement.  
 As of December 30, 2018, there was approximately $0.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to all outstanding RSUs, assuming all shares are earned. Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.   
 PSUs and RSUs are expensed based on the grant date fair value, calculated as the closing price of TESSCO common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the date of grant minus the present value of dividends expected to be paid on the common stock before the award vests, because dividends or dividend-equivalent amounts do not accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.   
included financial and other covenants, and pursuant to a related Guaranty and Security Agreement by and among the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, the Loan Parties’ obligations, which included the obligations under the Credit Agreement, were guaranteed by those Loan Parties not otherwise borrowers, and secured by continuing first priority security interests in the Company’s and the other Loan Parties’ (including both borrowers and guarantors) inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and in all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights and chattel paper, in each case to the extent relating to inventory and accounts, and all proceeds of the foregoing. The security interests were granted in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement from time to time. The obligations secured also include certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.  
 In addition to expanding the Company’s borrowing limit, the secured Revolving Credit Facility maturity date was extended to October 19, 2021. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement otherwise includes representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants (including restrictions) and other terms generally consistent with those applicable to the facility as existing prior to the execution and delivery of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, but with certain modifications.   
 Borrowings may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, and as further provided in, and subject to the applicable terms of, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. As of December 30, 2018, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $16.9 million and, therefore, the Company had $58.1 million available for borrowing as of December 30, 2018, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above. The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet. As of April 1, 2018, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $10.8 million and, therefore, the Company had $64.2 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of April 1, 2018, again subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.  
 The Company presents the computation of earnings per share (“EPS”) on a basic and diluted basis. Basic EPS is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the reported period. Diluted earnings per share are computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential additional common shares that were dilutive had been issued. Common shares are excluded 


item2.txt
 TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems. Although we sell products to customers in many countries, approximately 98% of our sales are made to customers in the United States. We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.   
 Our third quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 4.1% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018. We experienced third quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segment of 7.8% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 2.1%, as compared to the third fiscal quarter of 2018. The growth in our commercial segment was driven by an increase in our public carrier market related to increased sales to Tier 1 carriers and associated contractors. For the retail segment, revenue decreased due, in part, to the decline in lower consumer traffic in retail stores and a decrease in Ventev mobile device accessory sales. Among our product categories, revenue increased in our base station infrastructure category by 18.7%.   
 Our third quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 4.7%, compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above. Gross margin for the third quarter fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2018 was 20.4% and 20.2%, respectively. The improvement in gross margin was a result of lower freight expenses and improved profitability in our non-public carrier sales. Selling, General and Administrative expenses for the third quarter fiscal year 2019 were up 
 Total Revenues. Revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 4.1% compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Revenues in our public carrier market increased by 47.9%. This growth was primarily driven by our ability to expand market share with Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors. The growth in our public carrier market was partially offset by a 2.1% and 5.4% decline in sales to the retail market and the value-added resellers and integrators market.  
 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 4.7% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Overall gross profit margin increased slightly from 20.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to 20.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. These increases were primarily due to lower freight expenses and to improved profitability within our non-public carrier markets. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carrier market increased by 44.2%. Gross profit in our value-added resellers and integrators market decreased by 0.4%. Within our retail segment, gross profit increased by 0.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 2018.   
 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $81,600 for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 18.7% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, to 18.1% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019.  
 Selling, general and administrative expenses were consistent as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, despite the 4.1% increase in sales. There was an increase of $0.5 million in corporate support expense, primarily related to bad debt expenses, an increase of $0.3 million in information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives, and an increase of $0.2 million in compensation and benefits expense, during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018. These increases were offset by the $0.9 million decrease in marketing expense.  
 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $478,400 and $185,300 for the three months ended December 30, 2018 and December 24, 2017, respectively.   
 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased by 5.0% compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carrier market and our value-added resellers and integrators market increased by 35.2% and 1.6%, respectively, for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018. This growth in our commercial segment was partially offset by a decrease in our retail segment by 1.0%. Overall gross profit margin decreased from 20.6% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 to 20.2% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019. This decline was primarily caused by a change in customer mix, including the increase in lower margin sales in the public carrier market.   
 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $4.0 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 19.0% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, to 18.6% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019.  
 Information technology expense increased $1.4 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018. We continue to invest in our information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives.  
 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $1,499,700 and $433,200 for the nine months ended December 30, 2018 and December 24, 2017, respectively. We experienced several atypical bad debt events during fiscal year 2019 thus far, which have resulted in a higher than usual fiscal year 2019 year to date bad debt expense. In addition, our bad debt expense for the same prior year period was unusually low, which affects the comparison.   
 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with the Company’s primary lenders. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement for the secured Revolving Credit Facility previously established in June 2016, was amended and restated in order to, among other things, increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million. In addition to expanding the borrowing limit, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement extends the applicable maturity date to October 19, 2021. As of December 30, 2018, we had a $16.9 million balance on the secured Revolving Credit Facility; therefore, we had $58.1 million available, subject to the Borrowing Base limitations and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the financial and other covenants discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  


item4.txt
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  


part2.txt
 Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  


