item1.txt
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (TESSCO, we, or the Company), architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless systems. The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology. Approximately 98% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States. The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange. Almost all of the Company’s sales are made in United States Dollars.  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company has identified the full population of leases and does not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. The standard will be adopted on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.  
cash flow statement. Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities. Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and will be applied retrospectively. The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard, on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 The Company has changed the presentation of its returns reserve. The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet. This liability represents the obligation to return customer consideration. The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the inventory line item of the balance sheet. The return asset value is initially measured at the former carrying amount in inventory, less any expected costs to recover the goods. The Company expects products returned by customers to be in new and salable condition, as required by our standard terms and conditions, and therefore impairment of the return asset is unlikely. Changes to the return liability are recorded as revenue adjustments and changes to the inventory asset are recorded as cost of goods sold. As of September 30, 2018, the return asset and refund liability amounts were $1.6 million and $2.0 million, respectively. Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.  
 The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter and six months ended September 30, 2018 includes $384,800 and $705,300, respectively, of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter and six months ended September 24, 2017 included $254,300 and $501,900, respectively, of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Stock-based compensation expense is primarily related to our Performance Stock Units (PSUs), Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock Options, granted or outstanding under the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stock and Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”).   
 During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Compensation Committee”) approved the grant of PSUs to select key employees, providing them with the opportunity to earn up to 71,000 shares of the Company’s common stock in the aggregate, depending upon whether and to the extent which certain earnings per share targets and other Company and individual performance metrics are met. These not-yet-earned PSUs have a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019), and assuming the performance metrics are met to a sufficient extent, any shares earned at the end of fiscal 2019 will vest 25% and be issued ratably on or about each of May 1 of 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, provided that the respective employees remain employed by the Company on each such date.   
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2019 primarily related to the fiscal 2018 grant of PSUs, which had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2018). These PSUs were cancelled because the applicable fiscal 2018 performance targets were not fully satisfied. Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.  
 PSUs and RSUs are expensed based on the grant date fair value, calculated as the closing price of TESSCO common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the date of grant minus the present value of dividends expected to be paid on the common stock before the award vests, because dividends or dividend-equivalent amounts do not accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.   
 The value of each option at the date of grant is amortized as compensation expense over the service period. This occurs without regard to subsequent changes in stock price, volatility, or interest rates over time, provided the option remains outstanding.   
Loan Parties’ obligations, which included the obligations under the Credit Agreement, were guaranteed by those Loan Parties not otherwise borrowers, and secured by continuing first priority security interests in the Company’s and the other Loan Parties’ (including both borrowers and guarantors) inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and in all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights and chattel paper, in each case to the extent relating to inventory and accounts, and all proceeds of the foregoing. The security interests were granted in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement from time to time. The obligations secured also include certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.  
 In addition to expanding the Company’s borrowing limit, the secured Revolving Credit Facility maturity date was extended to October 19, 2021. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement otherwise includes representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants (including restrictions) and other terms generally consistent with those applicable to the facility as existing prior to the execution and delivery of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, but with certain modifications.   
 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and other Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by them in connection with the secured Revolving Credit Facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility from time to time.   
 Borrowings may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, and as further provided in, and subject to the applicable terms of, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. As of September 30, 2018, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $19.7 million and, therefore, the Company had $55.3 million available for borrowing as of September 30, 2018, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above. The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet. As of April 1, 2018, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $10.8 million and, therefore, the Company had $64.2 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of April 1, 2018.  


item2.txt
Gross margin for the second quarter fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2018 was 19.8% and 20.6% respectively. The primary reason for the decrease in margin is higher freight expenses and changes in customer mix associated with the large increase in public carrier revenues. The freight increases are related to the growth in project business, primarily in the carrier market as well as a higher portion of international air shipments of Ventev inventory. Selling, General and Administrative expenses for the second quarter fiscal year 2019 were up 11% compared to the second quarter fiscal year 2018. The increase is related to increased freight costs and other variable operations costs primarily related to our large carriers and retail customers. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income decreased by 32.9% and diluted earnings per share decreased by 33.3% compared to the prior-year quarter.  
 Total Revenues. Revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 9.3% compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Revenues in our public carrier market increased by 44.7% and revenues in the retail market increased by 5.9%. This growth was primarily driven by our ability to expand market share with Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors. The growth in our public carrier and retail markets was partially offset by a 2.2% decline in sales to the newly identified integrator and value-added reseller market, created when implementing our enhanced go-to-market strategy and reflecting the consolidation of our previously identified value-added resellers, government channels and private system operator markets. This new structure is expected to enhance sales opportunities across the consolidated group as well as provide better coverage to the customers and better align territories with supplier partners.  
 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 4.9% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Overall gross profit margin decreased slightly from 20.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to 19.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. This decline was caused primarily due to higher freight expenses and change in customer mix. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carrier, and integrators and value-added reseller markets increased by 26.6%, and 3.1%, respectively. We continue to experience margin compression within the public carrier market because of increases in sales with larger customers. Within our retail market, gross profit decreased by 0.4% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 2018, due to higher freight costs, particularly air freight from foreign vendors.   
 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $2.8 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased from 18.4% for the second quarter of fiscal 2018, to 18.6% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019.  
 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $665,100 and $16,900 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and September 24, 2017, respectively. There were a few isolated incidences which resulted in a higher than usual bad debt expense during the second quarter of fiscal 2019. In addition, the bad debt expense for the same period of the prior year was unusually low.  
 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $156,500 for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to $244,800 for the second quarter of fiscal 2019. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.   
 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate decreased from 42.6% for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to 28.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was lower primarily due to a change in tax law. The annual federal rate has dropped from 35% to 21% due to the Tax Act. Net income decreased 32.9% and diluted earnings per share decreased 33.3% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.   
 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by 5.1% compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carriers and integrators and value-added reseller market increased by 31.6% and 2.7%, respectively. This growth in our commercial segment was partially offset by a decrease in our retail segment by 1.8%. Overall gross profit margin decreased from 20.7% in the first six months of fiscal 2018 to 20.1% in the first six months of fiscal 2019. This decline was primarily caused by a change in customer mix, including the increase in lower margin sales in the public carrier market.   
 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $3.9 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 19.1% for the first six months of fiscal 2018, to 18.9% for the first six months of fiscal 2019.  
 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $1,021,300 and $247,900 for the six months ended September 30, 2018 and September 24, 2017, respectively. There were a few isolated incidences during fiscal year 2019 which have resulted in a higher than usual year to date bad debt expense. In addition, the bad debt expense for the same period prior year was unusually low.   
 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $225,100 for the first six months of fiscal 2018 to $419,200 for the first six months of fiscal 2019. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.  
 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate decreased from 43.0% for the first six months of fiscal 2018 to 27.4% for the first six months of fiscal 2019. The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was lower primarily due to a change in tax law. The annual federal rate has dropped from 35% to 21% due to the Tax Act. Our provision for income taxes decreased by 52.2% compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018, primarily as a result of lower income before provision for income taxes. Net income decreased by 4.4% and diluted earnings per share decreased 6.9% for the first six month of fiscal 2019, compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018.  


item4.txt
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  


part2.txt
 Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  


