item1.txt
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (TESSCO, we, or the Company), architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless systems. The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology. Approximately 98% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States. The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange. Almost all of the Company’s sales are made in United States Dollars.  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 In August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The new standard will change the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement. Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities. Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and will be applied retrospectively. The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-19, “Technical Corrections and Improvements”. Among other things, the ASU provides clarification on the presentation of the costs of computer software developed or obtained for internal use. The Company retrospectively adopted the ASU in the three months ended June 25, 2017 and reclassified the carrying value of internal-use computer software from Property, plant and equipment, net to Intangible assets, net. The net carrying value of internal-use computer software was $4.2 million and $4.3 million, respectively, as of December 24, 2017 and March 26, 2017.  
 During fiscal 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors, with concurrence of the full Board of Directors, granted PSUs to select key employees, providing them with the opportunity to earn up to 86,000 shares of the Company’s common stock in the aggregate, depending upon whether and to the extent which certain earnings per share targets and other Company and individual performance metrics are met. These not-yet-earned PSUs have a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2018), and assuming the performance metrics are met to a sufficient extent, any shares earned at the end of fiscal 2018 will vest and be issued ratably on or about May 1 of 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021, provided that the respective employees remain employed by or associated with the Company on each such date.   
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2018 primarily related to the fiscal 2017 grant of PSUs, which had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2017). The PSUs were cancelled because the minimum applicable fiscal 2017 performance targets were not attained. Per the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.  
 If all PSUs granted thus far in fiscal 2018 are assumed to be earned on account of the applicable performance metrics being fully met, total unrecognized compensation costs on these PSUs would be approximately $0.6 million, as of December 24, 2017, and would be expensed through fiscal 2021. To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2018 is not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.  
 As of December 24, 2017, there was approximately $0.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to all outstanding RSUs, assuming all shares are earned. Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.   
 PSUs and RSUs are expensed based on the grant date fair value, calculated as the closing price of TESSCO common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the date of grant minus the present value of dividends expected to be paid on the common stock before the award vests, because dividends or dividend-equivalent amounts do not accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.   
 The value of each option at the date of grant is amortized as compensation expense over the service period. This occurs without regard to subsequent changes in stock price, volatility, or interest rates over time, provided the option remains outstanding.   
 On June 24, 2016, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, for a senior asset based secured revolving credit facility of up to $35 million (the “Revolving Credit Facility”). This replaced the Company’s previously existing $35 million unsecured revolving credit facility with both SunTrust Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, which had no outstanding principal balance at the time of replacement. The replacement Revolving Credit Facility included terms providing for its maturity after five years, on June 24, 2021, and for a $5.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans. Borrowing Availability under the replacement Revolving Credit Facility as it was initially established is determined in part in accordance with a Borrowing Base, defined in the Credit Agreement, generally, as 85% of Eligible Receivables minus Reserves. The Credit Agreement also set forth financial covenants, including a fixed charge coverage ratio that must be maintained at any time during which the borrowing availability, as determined in accordance with and subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, falls below $10 million, as well as terms that could limit the Company’s ability to engage in specified transactions or activities, including (but not limited to) investments 
 Pursuant to a related Guaranty and Security Agreement by and among the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, who are referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, the Loan Parties’ obligations, which include the obligations under the Credit Agreement, are guaranteed by those Loan Parties which are not otherwise borrowers, and secured by continuing first priority security interests in the Company’s and the other Loan Parties’ (including both borrowers and guarantors) inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and in all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights and chattel paper, in each case to the extent relating to inventory and accounts, and in all proceeds of the foregoing. The security interests are granted in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement from time to time. The obligations secured also include certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.  
 Effective July 13, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, entered into a First Amendment to Credit Agreement (the “First Amendment”), to amend select terms of the Credit Agreement. Pursuant to the First Amendment, the term “Availability” as used in the Credit Agreement was amended for a period of time ending no later than October 31, 2017, to allow for the inclusion of an additional sum when calculating Availability for certain limited purposes. This additional sum equals the lesser of $10 million, and the amount by which the Borrowing Base exceeds $35 million. This First Amendment did not increase the $35 million Aggregate Revolving Commitment Amount, but allowed the Company greater flexibility under the Credit Agreement for a limited period of time, until October 31, 2017, and was sought by the Company in response to business opportunities identified by the Company.  


item2.txt
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated (TESSCO, we, or the Company) architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems. Although we sell products to customers in many countries, approximately 98% of our sales are made to customers in the United States. We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.   
 Our third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue decreased by 0.6% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. We experienced third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 4.2% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 7.9%. The growth in our commercial segment is driven by increases in our government, private system operators and value-added resellers market. This growth was partially offset by a decrease in revenue in our public carrier market, which decreased by 12.1%, as compared to the same quarter last year. The decline in our public carrier market is primarily due to timing-related order delays. For the retail segment, revenue declined due, in part, to the timing of the iPhone launch. On the product side, revenue 
 Our third quarter fiscal year 2018 gross profit decreased by 1.2%, compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2017. The decrease in gross profit was primarily the result of the decrease in revenue discussed above, and in part the result of slightly compressed gross profit margins caused by changes in customer and product mix, including a lower percentage of proprietary Ventev® sales as compared to the prior year period. Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by 1.6% compared to the prior-year quarter. The new tax law signed in December also provided a benefit of approximately $0.3 million in this year’s third quarter. As a result, net income increased by 27.9% and diluted earnings per share increased by 26.7% compared to the prior-year quarter.  
 Total Revenues. Revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased 0.6% compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Within our commercial segment, revenues in our government market increased by 29.5%. This growth was concentrated within our state and local government customers as well as our government value-added resellers. We also experienced revenue growth within our private system operators and our value-added resellers markets of 8.4% and 8.0%, respectively, over the prior year quarter. Revenues in our public carrier market decreased by 12.1%, due to timing-related order delays. The growth in our commercial segment was more than offset by a decline in our retail segment of 7.9%, due, in part, to the timing of the iPhone launch. Additionally, there has been a shift in customer behavior, resulting in reduced retail store traffic, partially due to consumers keeping the same phone for longer periods of time.  
 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1.6% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly from 18.9% for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, to 18.7% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.  
 Pay for performance bonus expense (including both cash and equity plans) increased by $0.5 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Our bonus programs are typically based on achieving annual performance targets. The relationship between expected performance and actual performance led to higher bonus accruals in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.  
 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $185,300 and $103,300 for the fiscal quarter ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016, respectively.   
 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $37,100 for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 to $114,500 for the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.   
 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate decreased from 40.7% for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 to 24.2% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018. The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was lower primarily due to a change in tax law. The new law requires fiscal year companies to blend their federal tax rates this year. Our annual federal rate for fiscal 2018 will be based on 9 months at the old 35% rate and 3 months at the new 21% rate. We were also able to take a benefit on our net deferred tax liabilities this quarter, which are now reflective of the lower federal rate. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased 27.9% and diluted earnings per share increased 26.7% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.   
 Pay for performance bonus expense (including both cash and equity plans) increased by $2.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Our bonus programs are typically based on achieving annual performance targets. The relationship between expected performance and actual performance led to higher bonus accruals in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the first nine month of fiscal 2017.  
 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $433,200 and $633,500 for the nine months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016, respectively. There were several bad debt recoveries in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, causing an abnormally low year to date expense.   


item3.txt
 Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  


item4.txt
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  
 10.2         Reaffirmation Agreement dated as of October 19, 2017, among TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, its subsidiaries, the Lenders party thereto, and SunTrust Bank, as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 23, 2017).   


part2.txt
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  
 10.1         Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 19, 2017, among TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, the additional borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto, and SunTrust Bank, as administrative agent, swingline lender and an issuing bank, together with exhibits and schedules thereto (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 23, 2017).   
 10.2         Reaffirmation Agreement dated as of October 19, 2017, among TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, its subsidiaries, the Lenders party thereto, and SunTrust Bank, as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 23, 2017).   


