item1.txt
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (TESSCO, we, or the Company), architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless systems. The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology. Approximately 98% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States. The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange. Almost all of the Company’s sales are made in United States Dollars.  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.  
 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The new standard will change the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement. Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities. Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and will be applied retrospectively. The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard, on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 The Company has changed the presentation of its returns reserve. The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet. This liability represents the obligation to return customer consideration. The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the inventory line item of the balance sheet. The return asset value is initially measured at the former carrying amount in inventory, less any expected costs to recover the goods. The Company expects products returned by customers to be in new and salable condition, as required by our standard terms and conditions, and therefore impairment of the return asset is unlikely. Changes to the return liability are recorded as revenue adjustments and changes to the inventory asset are recorded as cost of goods sold. As of July 1, 2018, the return asset and refund liability amounts were $1.5 million and $2.0 million, respectively. Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.  
 The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2018 included $320,500 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended June 25, 2017 included $247,600 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Stock-based compensation expense is primarily related to our Performance Stock Units (PSUs), Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock Options, granted or outstanding under the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stock and Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”).   
 During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, on May 10, 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Compensation Committee”) approved the grant of PSUs to selected key employees, providing them with the opportunity to earn up to 71,000 shares of the Company’s common stock in the aggregate, depending upon whether and to the extent which certain earnings per share targets and other Company and individual performance metrics are met. These not-yet-earned PSUs have a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019), and assuming the performance metrics are met to a sufficient extent, any shares earned at the end of fiscal 2019 will vest 25% and be issued ratably on or about each of May 1 of 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, provided that the respective employees remain employed by or associated with the Company on each such date.   
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2019 related to the fiscal 2018 grant of PSUs, which had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2018). The PSUs were cancelled because the applicable fiscal 2018 performance targets were not fully attained. Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.  
 If all PSUs granted thus far in fiscal 2019 are assumed to be earned on account of the applicable performance metrics being fully met, total unrecognized compensation costs on these PSUs would be approximately $1.0 million, as of July 1, 2018, and would be expensed through fiscal 2022. To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2019 are not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.  
 As of July 1, 2018, there was approximately $1.0 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to all outstanding RSUs, assuming all shares are earned. Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.   
 The value of each option at the date of grant is amortized as compensation expense over the service period. This occurs without regard to subsequent changes in stock price, volatility, or interest rates over time, provided the option remains outstanding.   
 On June 24, 2016, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, for a senior asset based secured revolving credit facility of up to $35 million (the “Revolving Credit Facility”). This replaced our then existing $35 million unsecured revolving credit facility with both SunTrust Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, which had no outstanding principal balance at the time of replacement. The secured Revolving Credit Facility, as it was initially established, included terms providing for its maturity after five years, on June 24, 2021, and for a $5.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans. Borrowing Availability under the secured Revolving Credit Facility as it was initially established was determined in part in accordance with a Borrowing Base, defined in the Credit Agreement, generally, as 85% of Eligible Receivables minus Reserves, as those terms were defined in the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement included financial and other covenants, and pursuant to a related Guaranty and Security Agreement by and among the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, the Loan Parties’ obligations, which included the obligations under the Credit Agreement, were guaranteed by those Loan Parties not otherwise borrowers, and secured by continuing first priority security interests in the Company’s and the other Loan Parties’ (including both borrowers and guarantors) inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and in all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights and chattel paper, in each case to the extent relating to inventory and accounts, and all proceeds of the foregoing. The security interests were granted in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement from time to time. The obligations secured also include certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.  
 In addition to expanding the Company’s borrowing limit, the secured Revolving Credit Facility maturity date was extended to October 19, 2021. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement otherwise includes representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants (including restrictions) and other terms generally consistent with those applicable to the facility as existing prior to the execution and delivery of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, but with certain modifications.   
 Borrowings may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, and as further provided in, and subject to the applicable terms of, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. As of July 1, 2018, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $15.8 million and, therefore, the Company had $59.2 million available for borrowing as of July 1, 2018, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above. The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet. As of April 1, 2018, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $10.8 million and, therefore, the Company had $64.2 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of April 1, 2018.  
 As of July 1, 2018, the Company had a gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits of $116,200 ($91,800 net of federal benefit). As of April 1, 2018, the Company had a gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits of $112,700 ($87,200 net of federal benefit).   


item2.txt
 TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems. Although we sell products to customers in many countries, approximately 98% of our sales are made to customers in the United States. We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.   
 Our first quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 7.8% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. We experienced first quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 16.2% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 7.9%, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2018. The growth in our commercial segment was driven by increases in our public carrier, government and, private system operators markets. For the retail segment, year over year, revenue declined due, in part, to the timing of two Samsung Galaxy phone launches. The prior launch occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, while the most recent launch instead occurred in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, contributing to a decline in year over year first quarter revenue. On the product side, revenue increased in our base station infrastructure and our installation, test and maintenance categories by 25.8% and 6.3%, respectively. Revenue decreased in our network systems and our mobile device accessories categories by 4.4% and 7.4%, respectively, for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the same quarter last year.   
 Total Revenues. Revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 7.8% compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Within our commercial segment, revenues in our public carrier market increased by 51.7%. This growth was primarily driven by our ability to expand market share with Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors. We also experienced revenue growth within our government and private system operators markets of 9.3% and 2.8%, respectively, over the prior year quarter. The increase in revenue from our government market was primarily related to increased spending by government contractors related to state and local government fiscal year ends. The increase in revenue for our private system operators is primarily driven by increases from manufacturing and mining customers. Revenues in our value-added resellers market decreased slightly by 1.0%. The growth in our commercial segment was partially offset by a decline in our retail segment of 7.9%, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2018. The first fiscal quarter of 2018 included retail segment revenue associated with the introduction by Samsung of a new Galaxy phone. This year, Samsung again introduced a new Galaxy phone, but did so earlier in the calendar year, leading to the receipt of a significant portion of related revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, instead of the first quarter of fiscal 2019.   
 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 5.2% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Overall gross profit margin decreased slightly from 20.8% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 to 20.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. This decline was caused primarily by a change in product and customer mix, including a lower percentage of proprietary Ventev® sales as compared to the prior year period. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carrier, government, and private system operator markets increased by 36.3%, 6.6%, and 5.6%, respectively. Gross profit in our value-added reseller markets decreased slightly by 0.5%. We continue to experience margin compression within the public carrier market because of changes in customer mix, including a higher percentage of sales to Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors. Within our retail market, gross profit decreased by 3.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 2018, due to lower revenue, but was partially offset by changes in customer mix and support from our vendors to secure additional business.   
 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased 3.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 19.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, to 19.2% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.  
 The increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the increase in our information technology expense of $0.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. We continue to invest in our information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives.   
 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate decreased from 43.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 to 25.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was lower primarily due to a change in tax law. The annual federal rate has dropped from 35% to 21% due to the Tax Act. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased 69.6% and diluted earnings per share increased 62.5% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.   
 We used $1.7 million of net cash from operating activities for the first three months of fiscal 2019, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $14.1 million for the first three months of fiscal 2018. This fiscal 2018 outflow was driven by an increase in accounts receivable and product inventory, partially offset by net income and an increase in accounts payable. We have determined that increasing sales to our public carrier customers requires significant investments in inventory, which times results in larger accounts receivable balances. Accounts payable also increased in response to higher inventory levels. Both current and potential opportunities within our public carrier business have required an increase in working capital investments. As such, on October 19, 2017 we entered into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as discussed below, based upon our anticipated borrowing and cash needs.  
 Net cash provided by financing activities was $3.1 million for the first three months of fiscal 2019, compared to $6.6 million provided in the first three months of fiscal 2018. During the first three months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, we utilized our asset based secured Revolving Credit Facility, leading to a cash inflow of $4.9 million 


item3.txt
 Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  


item4.txt
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  


part2.txt
 Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  


