item1.txt
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (TESSCO, we, or the Company), architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless systems. The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology. Approximately 97% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States. The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange. Almost all of the Company’s sales are made in United States Dollars.  
 In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables. This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses. This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.  
 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The Company adopted this standard on the first day of the 2020 fiscal year, using a modified retrospective approach. Therefore, the Company recorded a right-of-use asset of $4,398,300 and lease liabilities of $4,420,800 for operating leases as of June 30, 2019. Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.   
 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The new standard changes the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement. Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, are now classified as financing activities. Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses. Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, included herein.  
 The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2019 includes $338,900 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2018 included $320,500 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Non-cash stock-based compensation expense is primarily related to our Performance Stock Units (PSUs), Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock Options, granted or outstanding under the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stock and Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”). On June 4, 2019, the Board of Directors approved the 2019 Stock and Incentive Plan of the Company, subject to shareholder approval, which occurred at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on July 25, 2019. Effective upon shareholder approval of the 2019 Stock and Incentive Plan, no additional awards may be granted under the 1994 Plan, although awards outstanding under the 1994 Plan remain outstanding and governed by its terms.  
metrics are met to a sufficient extent, the shares earned at the end of fiscal 2020 on the basis of that performance will vest in four equal installments beginning on or about May 15, 2020 and continuing on the same date in calendar 2021, 2022 and 2023, provided that the respective employee remains employed by or associated with the Company on each such date. Pursuant to the typical PSU award agreement, however, performance metrics are deemed met upon the occurrence of a change in control, and shares earned are issued earlier upon the occurrence of a change in control, or death or disability of the employee, or upon termination of the employee’s employment without cause or by the employee for good reason, as those terms are defined in the applicable PSU award agreement.   
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2020 related to the fiscal 2019 grant of PSUs, which also had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019). The PSUs were cancelled because the applicable fiscal 2019 performance targets were not fully attained. Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.  
 If all PSUs granted thus far in fiscal 2020 are assumed to be earned on account of the applicable performance metrics being fully met, or otherwise in accordance with terms of the applicable award agreement, total unrecognized compensation costs on these PSUs plus all earned but unvested PSUs would be approximately $1.0 million as of June 30, 2019, and would be expensed through fiscal 2023. To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2020 are not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.  
 As of June 30, 2019, there was approximately $1.0 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to all outstanding RSUs, assuming all shares are earned. Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.   
otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising from time to time under the secured Revolving Credit Facility provided for under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, and as respects certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.   
 Borrowings may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, and as further provided in, and subject to the applicable terms of, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. As of June 30, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $20.1 million and, therefore, the Company had $54.9 million available for borrowing as of June 30, 2019, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above. The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet. As of March 31, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $14.4 million and, therefore, the Company had $60.6 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of March 31, 2019, again subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.  
   ·    Base Station Infrastructure - Base station infrastructure products are used to build, repair and upgrade wireless telecommunications systems. Products include base station antennas, cable and transmission lines, small towers, lightning protection devices, connectors, power systems, miscellaneous hardware, and mobile antennas. Base station infrastructure service offerings include connector installation, custom jumper assembly, site kitting and logistics integration.  
   ·    Installation, Test and Maintenance - Installation, test and maintenance products are used to install, tune, maintain and repair wireless communications equipment. Products include sophisticated analysis equipment and various frequency, voltage- and power-measuring devices, as well as an assortment of tools, hardware, GPS, safety and replacement and component parts and supplies required by service technicians.  


item2.txt
 TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems. Although we sell products to customers in many countries, approximately 97% of our sales are made to customers in the United States. We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.   
 Our first quarter fiscal 2020 revenue decreased by 13.4% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019. First quarter fiscal 2020 revenue in the commercial segment and retail segment decreased 6.8% and 28.8%, respectively, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2019. The decline in our commercial segment revenue was driven by a decrease in our public carrier market due to the project-oriented nature of this business. Several large customers either adjusted their forecasts or pushed out their product requirements from the first fiscal quarter into the remainder of the year. For the retail segment, revenue decreased due to significantly lower revenues from one of our more significant retail customers following its recent acquisition, change in business model and subsequent transition of its business elsewhere, as well as ongoing overall market softness. Among our product categories, revenue decreased in our base station infrastructure, network systems, installation, test and maintenance, and mobile device accessories categories by 7.1%, 1.0%, 18.9% and 28.7%, respectively, for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, as compared to the same quarter last year.   
 Our first quarter fiscal year 2020 gross profit decreased by 17.7%, compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The decrease in gross profit was primarily the result of the decrease in revenue discussed above. Gross 
 Total Revenues. Revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased 13.4% compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Revenues in our public carrier market, value-added resellers and integrators market and retail market decreased by 17.0%, 0.5% and 28.8%, respectively. The decline in the commercial segment was primarily due to the project-oriented nature of this business. Several large customers adjusted their forecasts or pushed out their product requirements from the first fiscal quarter into the remainder of the fiscal year. The decline in the retail segment was driven by significantly lower revenues from one of our more significant retail customers following its recent acquisition, change in business model and subsequent transition of its business elsewhere, as well as ongoing overall market softness.  
 Selling, General, Administrative and Restructuring Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $864,800 for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased from 19.2% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, to 21.4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020.  
 The decrease in our selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a decrease of $0.7 million in compensation and benefits expense and a decrease of $0.6 million in rewards expense, during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019. These decreases were partially offset by the $0.3 million increase in distribution support expense, primarily related to variable operations costs related to large carrier customers, and the $0.2 million increase in occupancy expense.  
 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $135,400 and $356,200 for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, respectively.   
 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate increased from 25.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 to 29.4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The increase in the effective tax rate is the result of permanent and other tax adjustments remaining consistent year over year while pre-tax income decreased year over year. Tax benefits were fully recognized in fiscal 2019. Net income decreased 315.2% and diluted earnings per share decreased 323.1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.   
 We used $2.0 million of net cash from operating activities for the first three months of fiscal 2020, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $1.7 million for the first three months of fiscal 2019. This fiscal 2020 outflow was driven by a net loss and an increase in inventory, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and a decrease in accounts receivable. Both current and potential opportunities within our public carrier business caused a significant investment in inventory. Accounts payable also increased in response to higher inventory levels.   
 Net cash used in investing activities of $1.9 million for the first three months of fiscal 2020 increased from cash used of $1.4 million for the first three months of fiscal 2019. Cash used in both periods was due to capital expenditures largely comprised of investments in information technology.   
other things, an increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million. In addition to expanding the borrowing limit, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement extended the applicable maturity date to October 19, 2021. As of June 30, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $20.1 million; therefore, we then had $54.9 million available, subject to the Borrowing Base limitations and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the financial and other covenants discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement accrue interest at the rates, and the Company is required to pay a monthly commitment fee, as also discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  


item4.txt
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  


part2.txt
 Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  
 Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.  
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  


