item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the information furnished reflects all material adjustments (which include normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the unaudited interim periods.
Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported condensed consolidated financial statements to conform to the current fiscal period presentation.
Using the fair value hierarchy described in FASB ASC 820 "Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures," we valued our cash and cash equivalents using Level 1 inputs that were based on quoted market prices.
Pursuant to FASB ASC 260 "Earnings Per Share," equity-classified stock-based awards that are subject to performance conditions are not considered in our diluted EPS calculations until the respective performance conditions have been satisfied.
See Note (17) - "Stockholders’ Equity" for more information.
Our EPS calculations exclude 259,000 and 237,000 weighted average performance shares outstanding for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 211,000 and 229,000 weighted average performance shares outstanding for the six months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, as the performance conditions have not yet been satisfied.
However, the compensation expense related to these awards is included in net income (the numerator) for EPS calculations for each respective period.
Unbilled receivables relate to contracts-in-progress for which revenue has been recognized but we have not yet billed the customer for work performed.
The accrued potential settlement costs do not reflect the final amounts we may actually pay.


item2.txt
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
•Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs.
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
Revenue Recognition.
We earn revenue from the sale of advanced communication solutions to customers around the world.
Sales of advanced communication solutions can consist of any one or a combination of items required by our customer including hardware, technology platforms and related support.
For these contracts, we primarily apply the percentage-of-completion accounting method and generally recognize revenue based on the relationship of total costs incurred to total projected costs, or, alternatively, based on output measures, such as units delivered or produced.
Profits expected to be realized on such contracts are based on total estimated sales for the contract compared to total estimated costs, including warranty costs, at completion of the contract.
Long-term U.S. government cost-reimbursable type contracts are also specifically covered by FASB ASC 605-35.
Historically, we have not experienced material terminations of our long-term contracts.
Historically, we have been able to perform on our long-term contracts.
We also derive a portion of our revenues for advanced communication solutions from contracts and purchase orders where revenue is recorded on delivery of products or performance of services.
Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements requires judgment to determine if multiple elements exist, whether elements can be accounted for as separate units of accounting, and if so, the fair value for each of the elements.
VSOE is generally determined based on the price charged when an element is sold separately.
When we are unable to establish fair value using VSOE or TPE, we use estimated selling price ("ESP") to allocate value to each element.
The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold separately.
We determine ESP for deliverables by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, prices we charge for similar offerings, market conditions, competitive landscape, and pricing practices.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


