item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the information furnished reflects all material adjustments (which include normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the unaudited interim periods.
Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported condensed consolidated financial statements to conform to the current fiscal period presentation.
Using the fair value hierarchy described in FASB ASC 820 "Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures," we valued our cash and cash equivalents using Level 1 inputs that were based on quoted market prices.
Our diluted EPS reflects the dilution from potential common stock issuable pursuant to the exercise of equity-classified stock-based awards, if dilutive, outstanding during each respective period.
Pursuant to FASB ASC 260 "Earnings Per Share," equity-classified stock-based awards that are subject to performance conditions are not considered in our diluted EPS calculations until the respective performance conditions have been satisfied.
See Note (17) - "Stockholders’ Equity" for more information.
Our EPS calculations exclude 260,000 and 227,000 weighted average performance shares outstanding for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 257,000 and 233,000 weighted average performance shares outstanding for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, as the performance conditions have not yet been satisfied.
However, the compensation expense related to these awards is included in net income (the numerator) for EPS calculations for each respective period.
Unbilled receivables relate to contracts-in-progress for which revenue has been recognized but we have not yet billed the customer for work performed.


item2.txt
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
•Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs.
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services (including telecom expense management, project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each.
Revenue Recognition.
We earn revenue from the sale of advanced communication solutions to customers around the world.
For these contracts, we primarily apply the percentage-of-completion accounting method and generally recognize revenue based on the relationship of total costs incurred to total projected costs, or, alternatively, based on output measures, such as units delivered or produced.
Profits expected to be realized on such contracts are based on total estimated sales for the contract compared to total estimated costs, including warranty costs, at completion of the contract.
Long-term U.S. government cost-reimbursable type contracts are also specifically covered by FASB ASC 605-35.
We have been engaged in the production and delivery of goods and services on a continual basis under contractual arrangements for many years.
In addition, most government contracts have termination for convenience clauses that provide the customer with the right to terminate the contract at any time.
Such terminations could impact the assumptions regarding total contract revenues and expenses utilized in recognizing profit under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting.
Such revenues are recognized in accordance with the authoritative guidance contained in FASB ASC 605-25 "Revenue Recognition - Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements" ("FASB ASC 605-25") and, as applicable, FASB ASC 605-20 "Revenue Recognition - Services" ("FASB ASC 605-20") and Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2009-14 (FASB ASC Topic 985) "Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements."
Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements requires judgment to determine if multiple elements exist, whether elements can be accounted for as separate units of accounting, and if so, the fair value for each of the elements.
In summary, we recognize revenue for each separate unit of accounting when the applicable revenue recognition criteria for each element have been met.
We allocate revenue to each separate unit of accounting in a multi-element arrangement based on the relative fair value of each element, using vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") of their fair values, if available.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


