item1.txt
Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported condensed consolidated financial statements to conform to the current fiscal period presentation.
The acquisition has a preliminary purchase price for accounting purposes of $32,934,000, of which $27,328,000 was settled in cash and $5,606,000 was settled with the issuance of 208,669 shares of Comtech’s common stock at a volume weighted average stock price of $26.86.
The preliminary purchase price for accounting purposes is subject to finalization.
The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their preliminary fair value as of February 28, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules.
Pro forma financial information is not disclosed, as the acquisition is not material.
The acquired identifiable intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis, which we believe approximates the pattern in which the assets are utilized over their estimated useful lives.
The preliminary fair value of technology and trade name was based on the discounted capitalization of royalty expense saved because we now own the assets.
Among the factors contributing to the recognition of goodwill, as a component of the purchase price allocation, were synergies in products and technologies and the addition of a skilled, assembled workforce.
This goodwill has been assigned to our Commercial Solutions segment based on specific identification and is generally not deductible for income tax purposes.
The allocation of the preliminary purchase price shown in the above table was based upon a preliminary valuation and estimates and assumptions that are subject to change within the purchase price allocation period (generally one year from the acquisition date).


item2.txt
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
•Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller governments, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs.
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA") and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG-911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as a messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services including project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each.
Revenue Recognition.
As a practical expedient, we adopted the new standard only for existing contracts as of August 1, 2018.
•Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance.
This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyer’s specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts).
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
The selection of the method to measure progress requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services provided.
Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs.
Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred.
When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided.
This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues.
Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



