item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of Comtech Telecommunications Corp. and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018 are unaudited.
The acquisition of Solacom was a significant step in our strategy of enhancing our public safety and location technologies.
The acquisition has an aggregate purchase price for accounting purposes of $32,934,000, of which $27,328,000 was settled in cash and $5,606,000 was settled with the issuance of 208,669 shares of Comtech’s common stock at a volume weighted average stock price of $26.86.
The cash portion of the purchase price was funded principally through borrowings under our Credit Facility.
We are accounting for the acquisition of Solacom under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC 805, "Business Combinations" ("ASC 805").
Acquisition plan expenses were not included as a component of consideration transferred and were expensed in the period incurred.
Pro forma financial information is not disclosed, as the acquisition is not material.
The acquired identifiable intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis, which we believe approximates the pattern in which the assets are utilized over their estimated useful lives.
The fair value of customer relationships was estimated primarily based on the value of the discounted cash flows that the related intangible asset could be expected to generate in the future.
The fair value of technology and trade name was estimated based on the discounted capitalization of royalty expense saved because we now own the assets.
This goodwill has been assigned to our Commercial Solutions segment based on specific identification and is generally not deductible for income tax purposes.
Immediately after our announcement of this acquisition, we hired approximately sixty GD NG-911 employees and completed the integration of this business into our Commercial Solutions segment’s public safety and location technologies product line.


item2.txt
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
•Commercial Solutions - offers satellite ground station technologies (such as modems and amplifiers), public safety and location technologies (such as 911 call routing and mapping solutions) to commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments.
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
•Government Solutions - provides mission-critical technologies (such as tactical satellite-based networks and ongoing support for complicated communication networks) and high-performance transmission technologies (such as troposcatter systems and solid-state, high-power amplifiers) to large government end-users (including those of foreign countries), large international customers and domestic prime contractors.
Prior descriptions of these product lines were updated to reflect such changes.
We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each.
•Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance.
This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyer’s specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts).
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
The selection of the method to measure progress requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services provided.
Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs.
Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred.
When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided.
This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues.
Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment.
Additionally, if the EAC process indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period that it becomes evident.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


