Item 1.Financial Statements
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware. The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”). The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations. The Company has one reportable segment serving the North American lighting market and select international markets.
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. No material reclassifications occurred during the current period. Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, the Company acquired all of the equity interests of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”). IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and internationally. The operating results of IOTA have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Preliminary amounts related to the acquisition accounting are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 2018. These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible and other acquired assets and liabilities.
Lucid Design Group, Inc.
Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred. Preliminary amounts related to the acquisition accounting for these acquisitions are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 2018. The aggregate preliminary purchase price of these acquisitions reflects total goodwill and identified intangible assets of approximately $75.7 million and $79.1 million, respectively. Identified intangible assets consist of indefinite-lived marketing-related intangibles as well as definite-lived customer-based and technology-based assets, which have a weighted average useful life of approximately 22 years. These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible and other acquired assets and liabilities. These amounts are expected to change as the Company finalizes the allocation.
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, (“ASU 2016-09”), which changes certain aspects of accounting for share-based payments to employees. The standard requires that all excess tax benefits and deficiencies previously recorded as additional paid-in capital be prospectively recorded in income tax expense, which could create volatility in the Company's effective income tax rate on a quarter by quarter basis due primarily to fluctuations in the Company's stock price and the timing of stock option exercises and vesting of restricted share grants. The standard also requires excess tax benefits to be presented as an operating activity on the statement of cash flows rather than as a financing activity and taxes paid for employee withholdings to be presented as a financing activity. The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 effective as of September 1, 2017. Excess tax benefits and deficiencies are recorded within Income tax expense within the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income on a prospective basis as required by the standard; however, the Company elected to present changes to the statement of cash flows on a retrospective basis as allowed by the standard in order to maintain comparability between fiscal years. As such, cash flows from operations for the nine months ended May 31, 2017 increased $18.7 million, with a corresponding decrease to cash flows from financing activities, compared to amounts previously reported.
effects resulting from the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA”) signed into law in December 2017. The Company adopted ASU 2018-02 effective as of the beginning of the current reporting period and recorded a reclassification for the stranded tax effects resulting from the TCJA from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to Retained earnings in the amount of $11.1 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheets during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Refer to the Income Taxes footnote for further details. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. If so, the transaction does not qualify as a business. The guidance also requires an acquired business to include at least one substantive process and narrows the definition of outputs. ASU 2017-01 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2017-01 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows including debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance. ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019, and the provisions of ASU 2016-15 are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statement disclosures.
The Company has an implementation team tasked with identifying potential differences that will result from applying the new revenue recognition standard to the Company's contracts with its customers. The implementation team reports the findings and progress of the project to management on a frequent basis and to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The implementation team has completed its initial phase of contract reviews and continues to evaluate the results of those reviews with respect to potential changes from adopting the new standard on the Company's consolidated financial statements. Management anticipates the most significant changes will relate to additional deferral of revenue recognition for certain services provided and the gross presentation of right of return assets and refund liabilities for sales with a right of return. Based on the current portfolio of the Company's revenue generating activities, these changes are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Additionally, the implementation team is in the process of identifying appropriate changes to the Company's business processes, systems, and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard. Based on the implementation team's current findings and the overall expected immaterial impact of adoption, the implementation team is currently evaluating which adoption method would provide the most meaningful information to the Company's stakeholders. 
All other newly issued accounting pronouncements not yet effective have been deemed either immaterial or not applicable.
The Company determines fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability. ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i) unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level 1), (ii) quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level 2), and (iii) prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level 3).
The Company's cash and cash equivalents (Level 1), which are required to be carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis, were $94.3 million and $311.1 million as of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, respectively. 
The Company used quoted market prices to determine the fair value of Level 1 assets and liabilities. No transfers between the levels of the fair value hierarchy occurred during the current fiscal period. In the event of a transfer in or out of a level within the fair value hierarchy, the transfers would be recognized on the date of occurrence.
Disclosures of fair value information about financial instruments (whether or not recognized in the balance sheet), for which it is practicable to estimate that value, are required each reporting period in addition to any financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis as prescribed by ASC 825, Financial Instruments (“ASC 825”). In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation 
techniques. Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows.
The senior unsecured public notes are carried at the outstanding balance, net of unamortized bond discount and deferred costs, as of the end of the reporting period. Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The industrial revenue bond is carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period. The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, the Company estimates that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of May 31, 2018 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The bank loans are carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period. Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). 
The borrowings on the Company's revolving credit facility are carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period. The borrowings are variable-rate instruments that reset on a short-term basis; therefore, the Company estimates that the face amount of the notes approximate fair values as of May 31, 2018 based on borrowings of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
6.Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Through multiple acquisitions, the Company acquired intangible assets consisting primarily of trademarks and trade names associated with specific products with finite lives, definite-lived distribution networks, patented technology, non-compete agreements, and customer relationships, which are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of trade names that are expected to generate cash flows indefinitely.
 The Company recorded amortization expense of $7.2 million and $8.2 million during the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $20.5 million and $21.9 million during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Amortization expense is generally recorded on a straight-line basis and is expected to be approximately $28.0 million in fiscal 2018, $29.8 million in fiscal 2019, $29.8 million in fiscal 2020, $26.9 million in fiscal 2021, and $25.2 million in fiscal 2022. These estimated amounts include $1.7 million for fiscal 2018 and $3.8 million for fiscal 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022 related to the intangible assets acquired associated with the IOTA and Lucid transactions. The acquisition accounting and the related useful lives and amortization for the IOTA and Lucid acquisitions are preliminary as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired.
Further discussion of the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
8. Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share for the periods presented is computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed similarly but reflects the potential dilution that would occur if dilutive options were exercised, all unvested share-based payment awards were vested, and other distributions related to deferred stock agreements were incurred.
Further discussion of the Company’s stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
The Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio (“Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization expense (“EBITDA”), as such terms are defined in the Revolving Credit Facility agreement. These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period. The Revolving Credit Facility allows for a Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50, subject to certain conditions defined in the financing agreement. 
At May 31, 2018, the Company had $350.0 million of publicly-traded, senior unsecured notes outstanding at a 6% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in December 2019 (the “Unsecured Notes”) and $4.0 million of tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds that are scheduled to mature in 2021. The Company also had $3.4 million outstanding under fixed-rate bank loans. Further discussion of the Company's long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K. 
Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings, partially offset by interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents.
The Company accounts for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors of the Company, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of the Company's equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into the Company's director deferred compensation plan or the Company's supplemental deferred savings plan.
Further details regarding each of these award programs and the Company's share-based payments are included within the Share-based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
During the current period, the Company contributed an additional $5.0 million to its domestic defined benefit plans, resulting in total contributions of $8.0 million to these plans for fiscal 2018. No additional contributions are expected to be made to the domestic defined benefit plans for the remainder of the year.
Further details regarding the Company's pension plans are included within the Pension and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
Additionally, the Company reclassified $11.1 million from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to Retained earnings in relation to the revaluation of deferred tax assets related to the Company's defined benefit plans during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
On June 29, 2018, the Company entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks that provides the Company with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“New Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (“Term Loan Facility”). On June 29, 2018, the Company had $90.4 million borrowings outstanding under the New Revolving Credit Facility and no borrowings under the Term Loan Facility. At June 29, 2018, the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement of $704.3 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the New Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility less the outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued and $90.4 million in borrowings on the New Revolving Credit Facility. Available borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, working capital, refinancing indebtedness under the prior Revolving Credit Facility, share repurchases, and non-hostile acquisitions. 
The New Revolving Credit Facility replaced the Company's $250.0 million Revolving Credit Facility, which was scheduled to mature on August 27, 2019. Generally, amounts outstanding under the New Revolving Credit Facility allow for borrowings to bear interest at either the Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate at the Company's option. Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S. Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the LIBOR for the applicable currency plus an applicable margin. The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.375%. Base Rate advances bear interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin. The base rate applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.0% to 0.375%.
Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.250%. Base Rate advances bear interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin. The base rate applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.0% to 0.25%.
The Company is required to pay certain fees in connection with the Credit Agreement, including administrative service fees and annual facility fees. The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by the Company’s leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement. The facility fee ranges from 0.125% to 0.250% of the aggregate $800.0 million commitment of the lenders under the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest expense coverage ratio (“New Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“New Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to EBITDA, as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement. These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period. The Credit Agreement generally allows for a New Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a New Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50, subject to certain conditions defined in the financing agreement.
In December 2009, ABL, the 100% owned and principal operating subsidiary of Acuity Brands, refinanced the then current outstanding debt through the issuance of the Unsecured Notes. See Debt and Lines of Credit footnote for further information.
In accordance with the registration rights agreement by and between ABL and the guarantors to the Unsecured Notes and the initial purchasers of the Unsecured Notes, ABL and the guarantors to the Notes filed a registration statement with the SEC for an offer to exchange the Unsecured Notes for an issue of SEC-registered notes with identical terms. Due to the filing of the registration statement and offer to exchange, the Company determined the need for compliance with Rule 3-10 of SEC Regulation S-X (“Rule 3-10”). In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, the Company has included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule 3-10(d) of SEC Regulation S-X since the Unsecured Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding. The column marked “Parent” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands. The column marked “Subsidiary Issuer” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL. The column entitled “Subsidiary Guarantor” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL IP Holding. Lastly, the column listed as “Non-Guarantors” includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries. Consolidating adjustments were necessary in order to arrive at consolidated amounts. In addition, the equity method of accounting was used to calculate investments in subsidiaries. Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting.
