Item 1.Financial Statements
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Note 1 — Description of Business and Basis of Presentation
Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us,” or similar references) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware. We are one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. Our lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations. We have one reportable segment serving the North American lighting market and select international markets.
Note 2 — Significant Accounting Policies
Use of Estimates
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. No material reclassifications occurred during the current period. Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
No acquisitions were completed during the current quarter. The following discussion relates to acquisitions completed during fiscal 2018. 
IOTA Engineering, LLC
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, we acquired all of the equity interests of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”). IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and international markets. The operating results of IOTA have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Lucid Design Group, Inc.
Accounting for Fiscal 2018 Acquisitions
Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred. Preliminary amounts related to the acquisition accounting for these acquisitions are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The aggregate preliminary purchase price of these acquisitions reflects total goodwill and identified intangible assets of approximately $77.0 million and $81.8 million, respectively. Identified intangible assets consist of indefinite-lived marketing-related intangibles as well as definite-lived customer-based and technology-based assets, which have a weighted average useful life of approximately 14 years. These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, primarily due to our continuing efforts to gather information related to the identification and valuation of certain deferred tax items.
Note 4 — New Accounting Pronouncements
Accounting Standards Adopted in Fiscal 2019
In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets obtained in an acquisition is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. If so, the transaction does not qualify as a business. The guidance also requires an acquired business to include at least one substantive process and narrows the definition of outputs. We adopted ASU 2017-01 effective September 1, 2018 applying the guidance prospectively. The provisions of ASU 2017-01 did not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
ASU 2016-15 — Statement of Cash Flows
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. These cash flows include debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance. We adopted ASU 2016-15 effective September 1, 2018 applying the changes retrospectively. The Company maintains life insurance policies on certain former employees primarily to satisfy obligations under certain deferred compensation plans. As required by the standard, proceeds from these policies are now classified as cash inflows from investing activities. We received $0.6 million from corporate-owned life insurance policies during the three months ended November 30, 2018 and received no proceeds from these policies during the 
three months ended November 30, 2017. The remaining provisions of ASU 2016-15 do not apply to us for the periods presented.
ASU 2017-07 — Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASU 2014-09”), which replaced the existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP. Since the issuance of ASU 2014-09, the FASB released several amendments to improve and clarify the implementation guidance, as well as to change the effective date. These standards have been collectively codified within Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”). ASC 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The standard also requires additional disclosures about the nature, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in those judgments. 
We adopted ASC 606 effective September 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and recognized a cumulative effect of applying ASC 606 of $13.0 million in Retained earnings on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of this date. We applied the standard to all contracts as of the transition date. Information for prior years presented has not been restated and continues to reflect the authoritative accounting standards in effect for those periods. 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract (“ASU 2018-02”), which will require customers to apply internal-use software guidance to determine the implementation costs that are able to be capitalized. Capitalized implementation costs will be required to be amortized over the term of the arrangement, beginning when the cloud computing arrangement is ready for its intended use. ASU 2018-15 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2019. The standard allows changes to be applied either retrospectively or prospectively. We will adopt the standard as required in fiscal 2021. The provisions of ASU 2018-15 are not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (“ASU 2016-13”), which requires an entity to assess impairment of its financial instruments based on its estimate of expected credit losses. The provisions of ASU 2016-13 are effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2019. Entities are required to apply these changes through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which in the guidance is effective. We will adopt the amendments as required in fiscal 2021. The provisions of ASU 2016-13 is not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (“ASU 2016-02”), which requires lessees to include most leases on the balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2018. Since the issuance of ASU 2016-02, the FASB released several amendments to improve and clarify the implementation guidance, as well as to change the allowable adoption methods. The standard allows entities to present the effects of the accounting change as either a cumulative adjustment as of the beginning of the earliest period presented or as of the date of adoption. We have an implementation team tasked with reviewing our lease obligations and determining the impact of the new standard to our financial statements. The team is also tasked with identifying appropriate changes to our business processes, systems, and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard. Currently, the implementation team has begun its initial phase of lease identification and review; thus, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of adopting the standard. The implementation 
team reports its findings and progress of the project to management on a frequent basis and to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. We will adopt the standard as required in fiscal 2020.
All other newly issued accounting pronouncements not yet effective have been deemed either immaterial or not applicable.
Note 5 — Revenue Recognition
Total refund liabilities recorded under ASC 606 related to rights of return, cash discounts, and other miscellaneous credits to customers were $39.5 million and $41.2 million as of November 30, 2018 and September 1, 2018, respectively, and are reflected within Other accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additionally, we record right of return assets for inventory expected to be returned to our distribution centers, which is included within Prepayments and other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such assets totaled $16.2 million and $16.4 million as of November 30, 2018 and September 1, 2018, respectively. 
Nature of Goods and Services
Products
We collect fees associated with training, installation, and technical support services, primarily related to the set up of our lighting solutions. We recognize revenue for these one-time services at the time the service is performed. We also sell certain service-type warranties that extend coverages for products beyond their base warranties. We account for service-type warranties as distinct performance obligations and recognize revenue for these contracts ratably over the life of the additional warranty period. Claims related to service-type warranties are expensed as incurred.
Software
Software sales include licenses for software, data usage fees, and software as a service arrangements, which generally extend for one year or less. We recognize revenue for software based on the contractual rights provided to a customer, which typically results in the recognition of revenue ratably over the contractual service period.
Shipping and Handling Activities
Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations
A small portion (approximately 5%) of our revenue is derived from the combination of any or all of products, professional services, and software licenses. Significant judgment may be required to determine which performance obligations are distinct and should be accounted for separately or together. We allocate the expected consideration to be collected to each distinct performance obligation based on its standalone selling price. Standalone selling price is generally determined using a cost plus margin valuation when no observable input is available. The amount of consideration allocated to each performance obligation is recognized as revenue in accordance with the timing for products, professional services, and software as described above.
Current deferred revenues primarily consist of software licenses, and to a lesser extent professional service and sales-type warranty fees collected prior to performing the related service. Current deferred revenues are included within Other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These services are expected to be performed within one year. Non-current deferred revenues primarily consist of long-term service-type warranties, which are typically recognized ratably as revenue between five and ten years from the date of sale, and are included within Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Revenue recognized from beginning balances of contract liabilities during the three months ended November 30, 2018 totaled $2.2 million. 
Disaggregated Revenues
We determine fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability. ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i) unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level 1), (ii) quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level 2), and (iii) prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level 3).
Our cash and cash equivalents (Level 1), which are required to be carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis, were $214.8 million and $129.1 million as of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018, respectively. 
We used quoted market prices to determine the fair value of Level 1 assets and liabilities. No transfers between the levels of the fair value hierarchy occurred during the current fiscal period. In the event of a transfer in or out of a level within the fair value hierarchy, the transfers would be recognized on the date of occurrence.
The senior unsecured public notes are carried at the outstanding balance, net of unamortized bond discount and deferred costs, as of the end of the reporting period. Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The industrial revenue bond is carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period. The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, we estimate that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of November 30, 2018 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The bank loans are carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period. Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). 
Note 7 — Goodwill and Intangible Assets
We recorded amortization expense of $7.7 million and $6.6 million during the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Amortization expense is generally recorded on a straight-line basis and is expected to be approximately $30.9 million in fiscal 2019, $30.9 million in fiscal 2020, $28.4 million in fiscal 2021, $26.9 million in fiscal 2022, and $25.6 million in fiscal 2023.
Further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Note 8 — Inventories
Note 9 — Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share for the periods presented is computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed similarly but reflects the potential dilution that would occur if dilutive options were exercised, all unvested share-based payment awards were vested, and other distributions related to deferred stock agreements were incurred.
Further discussion of our stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Note 10 — Changes in Equity
Note 11 — Comprehensive Income
Note 12 — Debt and Lines of Credit
On June 29, 2018, we entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks that provides us with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (“Term Loan Facility”). We had no borrowings outstanding under the current Revolving Credit Facility as of November 30, 2018. Additionally, we had no borrowings outstanding under our previous credit facility as of November 30, 2017. 
We are required to pay certain fees in connection with the Credit Agreement, including administrative service fees and annual facility fees. The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by our leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement. The facility fee ranges from 0.125% to 0.25% of the aggregate $800.0 million commitment of the lenders under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest expense coverage ratio (“Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”), as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement. These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period. The Credit Agreement generally allows for a Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50, subject to certain conditions, as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement. 
We were in compliance with all financial covenants under the Credit Agreement as of November 30, 2018. As of November 30, 2018, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $9.5 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under our casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for our industrial revenue bond (not an outstanding amount under the Revolving Credit Facility). At November 30, 2018, we had additional borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement of $794.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility less the outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Long-term Debt
At November 30, 2018, we had $350.0 million of publicly-traded, senior unsecured notes outstanding at a 6% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in December 2019 (the “Unsecured Notes”) and $4.0 million of tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds that are scheduled to mature in 2021. We also had $3.1 million outstanding under fixed-rate bank loans. Further discussion of our long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K. 
Interest Expense, net
Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings, partially offset by interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents.
Note 13 — Commitments and Contingencies
Product Warranty and Recall Costs 
Securities Class Action 
Litigation
We account for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of our equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into our director deferred compensation plan or our supplemental deferred savings plan.
Further details regarding each of these award programs and our share-based payments are included within the Share-based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Note 15 — Pension Plans
Further details regarding our pension plans are included within the Pension and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
The Company previously asserted that all undistributed earnings and original investments in foreign subsidiaries were indefinitely reinvested and therefore has not recorded any deferred taxes related to any outside basis differences associated with its foreign subsidiaries as of November 30, 2018. While the Company has included a provisional estimate of the transition tax on estimated undistributed earnings from foreign subsidiaries, the impact of the TCJA on the Company's existing assertion of indefinite reinvestment is still being evaluated, pursuant to SAB 118. The Company will complete its analysis of the impact of the TCJA on its outside basis differences in foreign subsidiaries and respective indefinite reinvestment assertions during the measurement period.
Note 18 — Supplemental Guarantor Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements
In December 2009, ABL, the 100% owned and principal operating subsidiary of Acuity Brands, refinanced the then current outstanding debt through the issuance of the Unsecured Notes. See Debt and Lines of Credit footnote for further information.
In accordance with the registration rights agreement by and between ABL and the guarantors to the Unsecured Notes and the initial purchasers of the Unsecured Notes, ABL and the guarantors to the Notes filed a registration statement with the SEC for an offer to exchange the Unsecured Notes for an issue of SEC-registered notes with identical terms. Due to the filing of the registration statement and offer to exchange, we determined the need for compliance with Rule 3-10 of SEC Regulation S-X (“Rule 3-10”). In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, we have included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule 3-10(d) of SEC Regulation S-X since the Unsecured Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding. The column marked “Parent” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands. The column marked “Subsidiary Issuer” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL. The column entitled “Subsidiary Guarantor” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL IP Holding. Lastly, the column listed as “Non-Guarantors” includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries. Consolidating adjustments were necessary in order to arrive at consolidated amounts. In addition, the equity method of accounting was used to calculate investments in subsidiaries. Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting.
Item 1a.Risk Factors
