fls.txt



item1.txt
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $4.1 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.1 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months.
As of September 30, 2019, $176 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability was classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $45 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
We were not in compliance with one of our financial covenants of the TD Bank Credit Facility at September 30, 2019.
On November 6, 2019, we obtained a waiver from TD Bank for compliance with this financial covenant, which pertains to operating cash flow to total debt service (the “OCF”) at September 30, 2019 and amended the definition of interest expense to exclude fees paid on unused borrowings under the revolving credit line, which is used to calculate total debt service in the OCF.
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period, as the inclusion of these stock awards in the computation of diluted earnings would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 326 thousand and 147 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 462 thousand and 149 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.


item2.txt
TransAct is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas.
Net sales for the third quarter of 2019 decreased $4.2 million, or 26%, from the same period in 2018.
The average selling price of our printers, terminals and other hardware increased 3% during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 due primarily to a lower level of lottery printer sales and POS automation and banking printer sales, which sell at a lower price than our other products.
software recognized on a SaaS subscription basis, labels and other recurring revenue increased by 267%, including an over 250% increase in label sales and a ten-fold increase in software sales (though off of a low base in the third quarter of 2018) in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Hardware sales increased by 2% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
solution sale to a casino operator located in the Asia-Pacific market.
solution, which includes hardware as well as recurring software subscription revenue, service and label sales.
The decrease in both domestic and international POS automation and banking product revenue for the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a 26% decrease in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, largely to McDonald’s.
We expect sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer to McDonald’s to be lower for the full year 2019 compared to the full year 2018.
These decreases were partially offset by slightly higher revenue from recurring EPICENTRALTM annual software maintenance fees during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
The decrease in international sales of our casino and gaming products in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 was due to a 20% decrease in sales of our thermal casino printers due primarily to lower sales to a large OEM in Europe.
The decrease was partially offset by 37% higher international sales of our off-premise gaming printers during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018, primarily to an OEM in Europe for sports betting, as well as stronger sales in Australia.
The decrease in domestic revenue from TSG for the third quarter of 2019 as compared to the prior year period was due primarily to lower sales of replacement parts including lower sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT.
This decrease was partially offset by increased service revenue of 48% resulting largely from increased repairs of POS printers for McDonald’s.
Internationally, TSG revenue decreased in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 due primarily to a decline of international consumable product sales of 77% and, to a lesser extent, a 6% decline in international sales of replacement parts and accessories.


item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
Information regarding risk factors appears under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
We have taken certain actions in response to Brexit and in anticipation of E.U. legal requirements and the U.K.’s separation from the E.U. The actual effects of Brexit, which may be negative for our business, will depend upon many factors, including, but not limited to, the final results of the Brexit negotiations and whether the U.K. departs the E.U. As of September 30, 2019, we do not, however, expect Brexit to have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations as only 10% of our total revenues for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 are attributable to our U.K. operations.
Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting have been identified, and if we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified report thereon, we could be materially adversely affected.


