fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein.


item1.txt
CCUR Holdings, Inc. CCUR Holdings, Inc. ccur holdings, inc. ccur holdings, inc. ccur holdings, inc. ccur holdings, inc. 1.Overview of Business and Basis of Presentation References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
On February 13, 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”).
LMCS operates through its syndication network to facilitate merchant cash advance (“MCA”) funding by connecting a network of MCA originators (sometimes referred to herein as “funders”) with syndicate participants who provide those originators with additional capital by purchasing participation interests in funded MCAs.
Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018.
The Company allocates the purchase price of the acquisition to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and identifiable intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values.
During the measurement period, the Company records adjustments to provisional amounts recorded for assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
After the measurement period, which could be up to one year after the transaction date, subsequent adjustments are recorded to the Company’s consolidated statements of operations.
The Company recognizes the fair value of contingent consideration as of the acquisition date as part of the consideration transferred in exchange for an acquired business.
The fair value of the contingent consideration is recorded as a liability and remeasured each accounting period, with any resulting change being recorded as an operating income or loss item within the statement of operations.
On an annual basis, the Company makes a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill.


item2.txt
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2018 (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).
The Investment Committee, a special sub-committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board of Directors” or the “Board”), was established in December 2017 upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders.
Other than the restrictions set forth in the relevant non-competition and non-solicitation agreement executed by the Company in connection with the disposition of our prior operations, there are no restrictions on the transactions that we can pursue, including with respect to industry sector and geographic location.
During our fiscal year 2019, the Board dissolved the Investment Committee and established an Asset Management Committee as a standing committee of the Board.
The Asset Management Committee, among other things, continues the work of the former Investment Committee by providing oversight of the Company’s acquisition process and also manages the Company’s ongoing operations and assets (including continued expansion and development of its real estate and merchant cash advance (“MCA”) operations) and those of any subsequently acquired businesses.
In February 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”).
In addition, LMCS provides funding to MCA originators by both directly funding MCAs and by providing loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves.


item4.txt



part2.txt
An MCA funder provides small businesses with cash advances in return for the purchase of an amount of the small business’s future receipts.
This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions.
The illiquidity of our real estate portfolio may also result in us seeking financing in order to expand our operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan.
In addition, we may seek to restrict the percentage of our assets that are contained in illiquid real estate assets by seeking financing to continue expansion of our real estate operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan and invest in other value producing assets, including acquisition of additional businesses and assets.
We may be limited in the types of acquisitions that we can pursue in order to preserve use of our NOLs.


