Overview 
Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947. We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries. Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires. We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures. PLPC is respected around the world for quality, dependability and market-leading customer service. Our goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture, and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets. We have 27 sales and manufacturing operations in 19 different countries. 
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible. The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment. 
We evaluate segment performance and allocate resources based on several factors primarily based on sales and net income. 
The operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2019 are compared to the same period in 2018. Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $97.2 million decreased $1.0 million, or 1.0%, compared to 2018. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit decreased to 28.1% in 2019 from 32.1% in 2018. Gross profit for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $27.3 million and $31.5 million, respectively. Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, gross profit decreased $2.8 million, or 9.0%, compared to 2018. Costs and expenses of $25.2 million increased $1.4 million compared to 2018, which includes a favorable impact from currency translation of $1.7 million. Operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $2.0 million, a decrease of $5.7 million when compared to 2018. Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $1.8 million decreased $3.7 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The effect of currency translation had favorable impacts on operating income of $.3 million and net income of $.2 million, respectively. 
Despite the constant changes in the current global economy, we believe our business fundamentals and our financial position are sound and that we are strategically well-positioned. We remain focused on assessing our business structure, global facilities and overall capacity in conjunction with the requirements of local manufacturing in the markets that we serve. If necessary, we will modify redundant processes and utilize our global manufacturing network to manage costs, increase sales volumes and deliver value to our customers. We have continued to invest in the business to improve efficiency, develop new products, increase our capacity and become an even stronger supplier to our customers. We currently have a bank debt to equity ratio of 20.4% and can borrow needed funds at a competitive interest rate under our credit facility. 
The year-over-year increase in PLP-USA net sales of $2.0 million, or 5%, was primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales. International net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 experienced an unfavorable impact of $4.8 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of net sales excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net sales of $13.8 million decreased $3.5 million, or 18%, primarily due to a volume decrease in energy and communication product sales. EMEA net sales of $15.6 million increased $2.1 million, or 14%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales within the region. In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $26.3 million increased $3.3 million, or 14%, compared to 2018 primarily due to a sales volume increase in the energy and special industries products. 
Despite year-over-year favorable sales growth, PLP-USA gross profit of $12.0 million decreased $1.5 million compared to the same period in 2018 as a result of increases in raw material and production costs. International gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was unfavorably impacted by $1.4 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of gross profit excludes the effects of currency translation. The Americas gross profit decrease of $3.2 million was primarily the result of the sales decrease of $3.5 million combined with product margin decline in the region due to sales mix and increases in raw material and production costs. EMEA gross profit increased $.6 million mainly as a result of increased sales volume. Asia-Pacific gross profit increased $1.2 million primarily as a result of a year-over-year increase in sales of $3.3 million and a sales mix shift to higher margin products. 
PLP-USA costs and expenses of $12.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $1.3 million, or 11%, compared to 2018 mainly due to increased professional fees of $.7 million, higher bad debt expense of $.4 million, higher personnel related expenses including benefits of $.2 million, a $.2 million reduction in net foreign currency exchange gains and miscellaneous net increases in expenses of $.2 million. Lower commission expense of $.4 million partially offset the year-over-year increase in U.S. cost and expenses. Foreign currency exchange gains and losses are primarily related to translating into U.S. dollars its foreign denominated loans, trade and royalty receivables from its foreign subsidiaries at the March 31, 2019 exchange rates. On a consolidated basis, costs and expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were favorably impacted by $1.7 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of costs and expenses excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas costs and expenses of $3.0 million increased $.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to a $.3 million net loss on foreign currency transactional exchange, higher salary related expense of $.1 million combined with increased professional fees of $.1 million. EMEA costs and expenses of $4.1 million increased $.6 million mainly due to an increase in personnel related expenses of $.3 million, higher professional fees of $.1 million and a $.1 million incremental loss in net foreign currency exchange effect. Asia-Pacific costs and expenses of $5.7 million increased $.8 million. This increase was primarily due to increased personnel related expenses of $.3 million, higher commission expense of $.1 million, increased combined travel and advertising expense of $.1 million, increased bad debt expense of $.1 million along with combined increases in various expenses of $.2 million. 
Other income (expense). Other expense for both three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $.1 million. 
A $.4 million, or 21%, net decrease resulting from U.S. permanent items, primarily related to tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. 
A less than $.1 million, or 1%, net increase resulting from higher U.S. permanent items primarily related to provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted December 22, 2017. 
PLP-USA’s net income for the three months ended March 31. 2019 decreased $1.8 million compared to the same period in 2018 due to a decrease in operating income of $2.7 million, partially offset by a decrease in income taxes of $.9 million due to a tax benefit recorded in the current period. The following discussion of net income excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net income decreased $2.4 million as a result of a $3.7 million decrease in operating income, partially offset by lower income taxes of $1.3 million. EMEA net income increased $.2 million mainly as a result of a $.2 million year-over-year decrease in income tax expense as EMEA’s operating income was flat year-over year at $.6 million. Asia-Pacific net income increased $.1 million as a result of a $.4 million increase in operating income partially offset by an increase in income tax expense of $.3 million. 
Management Assessment of Liquidity 
We measure liquidity on the basis of our ability to meet short-term and long-term operating needs, repay debt, fund additional investments, including acquisitions, and make dividend payments to shareholders. Significant factors affecting the management of liquidity are cash flows from operating activities, capital expenditures, cash dividends, business acquisitions and access to bank lines of credit. 
Our investments include expenditures required for equipment and facilities as well as expenditures in support of our strategic initiatives. During the first three months of 2019, we used cash of $2.4 million for capital expenditures. We ended the first three months of 2019 with $43.8 million of cash, and cash equivalents and restricted cash (“Cash”). Our Cash is held in various locations throughout the world. At March 31, 2019, the majority of our Cash was held outside the U.S. We expect most accumulated non-U.S. Cash balances will remain outside of the U.S. and that we will meet U.S. liquidity needs through future cash flows, use of U.S. Cash balances, external borrowings, or some combination of these sources. We complete comprehensive reviews of our significant customers and their creditworthiness by analyzing financial statements for customers where we have identified a measure of increased risk. We closely monitor payments and developments which may signal possible customer credit issues. We currently have not identified any potential material impact on our liquidity from customer credit issues. 
Total debt at March 31, 2019 was $51.0 million. At March 31, 2019, our unused availability under our line of credit was $33.7 million and our bank debt to equity percentage was 20.4%.  In 2018, we extended the term on our $65 million credit facility from June 30, 2019 to June 30, 2021. All other terms remain the same, including the interest rate at LIBOR plus 1.125% unless our funded debt to Earnings before Interest, Taxes and Depreciation ratio exceeds 2.25 to 1, then the LIBOR spread becomes 1.500%. The line of credit agreement contains, among other provisions, requirements for maintaining levels of net worth and funded debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization along with an interest coverage ratio. The net worth and profitability requirements are calculated based on the line of credit agreement. At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with these covenants. 
Cash decreased $3.0 million compared to the same period in 2018. Net Cash provided by operating activities was $.5 million. The most significant net investing and financing uses of Cash in the three months ended March 31, 2019 were payments of long-term debt of $17.4 million, Cash used to fund the acquisition of Subcon of $10.2 million, capital expenditures of $2.4 million, share repurchases of $2.3 million and dividends paid of $1.0 million, partially offset by net debt and notes payable proceeds of $31.8 million. Currency had a positive $1.3 million impact on Cash when translating foreign denominated financial statements to U.S. dollars. 
Net provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $.5 million compared to a use of Cash of $1.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018. The $1.5 million increase was primarily a result of a decrease in Cash usage for operating assets (net of operating liabilities) of $5.8 million, which included a decrease resulting from the 2018 $5.3 million contribution to the pension plan, partially offset by a decrease in net income of $3.7 million and a decrease in non-cash items of $.6 million. 
Net Cash used in investing activities of $13.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $6.1 million when compared to Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $7.0 million. The change was primarily related to Cash used to fund the Subcon acquisition, net of Cash, of $10.2 million, partially offset by a reduction in Cash used year-over year to purchase marketable securities of $3.8 million and a reduction in capital expenditures of $.3 million. 
Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $11.1 million compared to $8.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The $2.8 million decrease was primarily the result of a net increase in debt borrowings in 2019 compared to 2018 of $4.3 million, partially offset by Cash used for net stock issuances and repurchases of $1.5 million. 
See Note L of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Cautionary Statement for “Safe Harbor” Purposes Under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 
The overall demand for cable anchoring and control hardware for electrical transmission and distribution lines on a worldwide basis, which has a slow growth rate in mature markets such as the U.S., Canada, Australia and Western Europe and may grow slowly or experience prolonged delay in developing regions despite expanding power needs; 
The ability of the Company’s customers to raise funds needed to build the facilities their customers require; 
The Company’s success at continuing to develop proprietary technology and maintaining high quality products and customer service to meet or exceed new industry performance standards and individual customer expectations; 
The Company’s success in strengthening and retaining relationships with the Company’s customers, growing sales at targeted accounts and expanding geographically; 
The extent to which the Company is successful at expanding the Company’s product line or production facilities into new areas or implementing efficiency measures at existing facilities; 
The Company’s ability to identify, complete, obtain funding for and integrate acquisitions for profitable growth; 
The potential impact of consolidation, deregulation and bankruptcy among the Company’s suppliers, competitors and customers and of any legal or regulatory claims; 
The cost, availability and quality of raw materials required for the manufacture of products and any tariffs that may be associated with the purchase of these products; 
Strikes, labor disruptions and other fluctuations in labor costs; 
Changes in significant government regulations affecting environmental compliances or other litigation matters; 
Those factors described under the heading “Risk Factors” on page 11 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed on March 8, 2019. 
