Overview 
Results of Operations 
Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947. We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries. Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires. We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures. PLPC is respected around the world for quality, dependability and market-leading customer service. Our goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture, and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets. We have 27 sales and manufacturing operations in 18 different countries. 
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible. The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment. 
We evaluate segment performance and allocate resources based on several factors primarily based on sales and net income. 
The operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are compared to the same period in 2017. Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $98.1 million increased $13.6 million, or 16%, compared to 2017. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit increased to 32.1% in 2018 from 29.2% in 2017. Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $31.5 million increased $6.9 million, or 27.8%, compared to 2017. Gross profit increased $6.2 million, or 25.2%, compared to 2017, excluding the favorable impact from currency translation. Costs and expenses of $23.8 million increased $1.4 million compared to 2017, including an unfavorable impact from currency translation of $.7 million. Operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $7.7 million, an increase of $5.5 million compared to 2017. Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $5.5 million increased $4.0 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The effect of currency translation had immaterial favorable impacts on both operating income and net income of $.1 million. 
Despite the constant changes in the current global economy, we believe our business fundamentals and our financial position are sound and that we are strategically well-positioned. We remain focused on assessing our business structure, global facilities and overall capacity in conjunction with the requirements of local manufacturing in the markets that we serve. If necessary, we will modify redundant processes and utilize our global manufacturing network to manage costs, increase sales volumes and deliver value to our customers. We have continued to invest in the business to improve efficiency, develop new products, increase our capacity and become an even stronger supplier to our customers. We currently have a bank debt to equity ratio of 19.1% and can borrow needed funds at a competitive interest rate under our credit facility. 
The increase in PLP-USA net sales of $4.6 million, or 13%, was primarily due to a volume increase in formed wire and hardware related product sales and protective closure product sales. International net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were favorably affected by $2.7 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of net sales excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net sales of $19.5 million increased $3.3 million, or 20%, primarily due to a volume increase in formed wire and hardware related product sales and protective closure product sales. EMEA net sales of $15.1 million decreased $.7 million, or 5%, primarily due to a volume decrease in formed wire and hardware related product sales and protective closure product sales in the region. In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $24.1 million increased $3.7 million, or 13%, compared to 2017 primarily due to a sales volume increase in formed wire and hardware related products. 
PLP-USA gross profit of $13.5 million increased $3.5 million compared to the same period in 2017 as a result of higher sales volume combined with a product sales mix shift to higher margin products. International gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was favorably impacted by $.6 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of gross profit excludes the effects of currency translation. The Americas gross profit increase of $2.3 million was primarily the result of the sales increase of $3.3 million combined with product margin improvement in the region due to sales mix. EMEA gross profit decreased $.4 mainly as a result of a $.7 million decrease in sales. Asia-Pacific gross profit increased $.7 million mainly as a result of a $3.7 million increase in sales in conjunction with higher volumes in the region. 
PLP-USA costs and expenses of $11.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $.5 million, or 4%, compared to 2017 mainly due to $.3 million of higher personnel related expenses, which includes benefits, combined with $.1 million of higher professional fees and lower foreign currency exchange gains of $.1 million. Foreign currency exchange gains are primarily related to translating into U.S. dollars its foreign denominated loans, trade and royalty receivables from its foreign subsidiaries at the March 31, 2018 exchange rates. On a consolidated basis, costs and expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were unfavorably impacted by $.7 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of costs and expenses excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas costs and expenses of $3.5 million increased $.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to higher salary related expense of $.2 million. EMEA costs and expenses of $3.9 million decreased $.1 million mainly due to a decrease in personnel related expenses of $.1 million. Asia-Pacific costs and expenses of $5.3 million increased $.2 million. This increase was primarily due to increased net loss on foreign currency exchange of $.2 million. 
Other income (expense). Other expense for both three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $.1 million. 
A less than $.1 million, or 1%, net increase resulting from higher U.S. permanent items primarily related to provisions of the Tax Act enacted December 22, 2017. 
PLP-USA’s net income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $2.3 million compared to the same period in 2017 due to a $3.1 million increase in operating income that was partially offset by an increase in income taxes of $.8 million. The following discussion of net income excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net income increased $1.3 million as a result of a $3.1 million increase in operating income, partially offset by higher income taxes of $.8 million. EMEA net income decreased $.3 million as a result of a $.3 million decrease in operating income combined with no year-over-year impact from income tax expense. Asia-Pacific net income increased $.5 million as a result of a $.5 million increase in operating income with no year-over-year impact resulting from income tax expense. 
Management Assessment of Liquidity 
We measure liquidity on the basis of our ability to meet short-term and long-term operating needs, repay debt, fund additional investments, including acquisitions, and make dividend payments to shareholders. Significant factors affecting the management of liquidity are cash flows from operating activities, capital expenditures, cash dividends, business acquisitions and access to bank lines of credit. 
Our investments include expenditures required for equipment and facilities as well as expenditures in support of our strategic initiatives. During the first three months of 2018, we used cash of $2.7 million for capital expenditures. We ended the first three months of 2018 with $45.5 million of cash and cash equivalents. Our cash and cash equivalents are held in various locations throughout the world. At March 31, 2018, the majority of our cash and cash equivalents were held outside the U.S. We expect most accumulated non-U.S. cash balances will remain outside of the U.S. and that we will meet U.S. liquidity needs through future cash flows, use of U.S. cash balances, external borrowings, or some combination of these sources. We complete comprehensive reviews of our significant customers and their creditworthiness by analyzing financial statements for customers where we have identified a measure of increased risk. We closely monitor payments and developments which may signal possible customer credit issues. We currently have not identified any potential material impact on our liquidity from customer credit issues. 
Total debt at March 31, 2018 was $47.1 million. At March 31, 2018, our unused availability under our line of credit was $32.1 million and our bank debt to equity percentage was 19.1%. On March 13, 2018, we extended the term on our $65 million credit facility from June 30, 2019 to June 30, 2021. All other terms remain the same, including the interest rate at LIBOR plus 1.125% unless our funded debt to Earnings before Interest, Taxes and Depreciation ratio exceeds 2.25 to 1, then the LIBOR spread becomes 1.500%. The line of credit agreement contains, among other provisions, requirements for maintaining levels of net worth and funded debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization along with an interest coverage ratio. The net worth and profitability requirements are calculated based on the line of credit agreement. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with these covenants. 
Cash increased $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Net cash used in operating activities was $1.0 million. The major investing and financing uses of cash were payments of long-term debt of $11.1 million, purchase of marketable securities of $4.3 million, capital expenditures of $2.7 million and dividends paid of $1.0 million, partially offset by net debt proceeds of $20.3 million. Currency had a positive $0.9 million impact on cash and cash equivalents when translating foreign denominated financial statements to U.S. dollars. 
Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $1.0 million and $1.6 million, respectively. The $.6 million decrease was primarily a result of an increase in cash used for operating assets (net of operating liabilities) of $4.4 million, offset by an increase in net income of $4.0 million. 
Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $7.0 million represents an increase of $7.4 million when compared to cash provided by investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2017. The change was primarily related to net cash used of $4.3 million related to the purchase of marketable securities and a net increase in capital expenditures of $.5 million combined with a reduction in cash provided by fixed-term deposits of $2.6 million. 
Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $8.3 million compared to $.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The $7.8 million increase was primarily the result of an increase in debt borrowings in 2018 compared to 2017 of $6.5 million and lower debt payments in the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus the prior year of $2.1 million, partially offset by $.7 million of stock repurchases. 
See Note J of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
See Note K of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Cautionary Statement for “Safe Harbor” Purposes Under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 
The overall demand for cable anchoring and control hardware for electrical transmission and distribution lines on a worldwide basis, which has a slow growth rate in mature markets such as the U.S., Canada, Australia and Western Europe and may grow slowly or experience prolonged delay in developing regions despite expanding power needs; 
The ability of the Company’s customers to raise funds needed to build the facilities their customers require; 
The Company’s success at continuing to develop proprietary technology and maintaining high quality products and customer service to meet or exceed new industry performance standards and individual customer expectations; 
The Company’s success in strengthening and retaining relationships with the Company’s customers, growing sales at targeted accounts and expanding geographically; 
The extent to which the Company is successful at expanding the Company’s product line or production facilities into new areas or implementing efficiency measures at existing facilities; 
The Company’s ability to identify, complete, obtain funding for and integrate acquisitions for profitable growth; 
The potential impact of consolidation, deregulation and bankruptcy among the Company’s suppliers, competitors and customers and of any legal or regulatory claims; 
The cost, availability and quality of raw materials required for the manufacture of products; 
Changes in significant government regulations affecting environmental compliances or other litigation matters; 
Those factors described under the heading “Risk Factors” on page 12 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed on March 9, 2018. 
