Continues on following page. 
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31. The four fiscal quarters in 2019 end on March 30, 2019, June 29, 2019, September 28, 2019, and December 31, 2019, respectively. The four fiscal quarters in 2018 ended on March 31, 2018, June 30, 2018, September 29, 2018, and December 31, 2018, respectively.  
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The ASU is the result of a project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The guidance in ASU No. 2016-02 and all related ASUs is codified in Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) Topic 842, Leases. The Company adopted ASC Topic 842 effective January 1, 2019. Upon adoption at January 1, 2019, the Company recognized right of use assets of $91,462 and lease liabilities of $95,784 on the consolidated balance sheet. The difference between the initial right of use asset and lease liability balances recognized upon adoption of ASC Topic 842 is primarily due to accrued lease incentive balances at December 31, 2018.  
On December 20, 2018, the Company received sale proceeds of $45,500 and concurrently leased-back its former manufacturing site in Santa Clara, California, under a short-term arrangement, to raze the buildings. Upon adoption of ASC Topic 842, the Company was required to reassess the accounting for these transactions. The transactions did not qualify as a completed sale and leaseback under previous GAAP. However, pursuant to ASC Topic 842’s sale and leaseback guidance, the transaction would qualify as a completed sale. The Company recognized a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings (accumulated deficit) of $23,013, to recognize the sale as of the date of adoption, and derecognized the land, building, and related deferred proceeds, which had been recorded in other accrued expenses.  
The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows. See Note 3.  
The Company recognizes right of use assets and lease liabilities for leases greater than twelve months in duration based on the contract consideration for lease components through the term of the lease and the applicable discount rate. Leases with a duration less than or equal to twelve months are considered short-term leases. The Company does not recognize right of use assets or lease liabilities for short-term leases and classifies the expense as short-term lease expense. Variable lease payments based on an index or rate are included in the right of use assets and lease liabilities based on the effective rates at lease commencement. Changes in the rates or indices do not impact the right of use asset or lease liability and are recognized as a component of lease expense in the statement of operations. Variable lease payments not based on an index or rate are not included in the initial right of use asset and lease liability and are recognized when incurred as a component of lease expense in the statement of operations.  
The Company has elected to not separate contract consideration for lease and non-lease components for its building leases. In addition to the noncancellable period of a lease, the Company includes periods covered by extension options it is reasonably certain to exercise, termination options that it is reasonably certain not to exercise, and extension and termination options controlled by the lessor in its determination of the lease term. The Company uses the rate implicit in the contract whenever possible when determining the applicable discount rate. When the implicit rate is not used, the Company employs a portfolio approach based on the duration of the lease. The portfolio lease rates are calculated monthly.  
No individual lease is considered significant and there are no leases that have not yet commenced that are considered significant.  
The Company paid $16,023 for its operating leases in the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019, which are included in operating cash flows on the consolidated condensed statement of cash flows. The weighted-average remaining lease term for the Company's operating leases is 9.0 years and the weighted-average discount rate is 6.1% as of September 28, 2019.  
The undiscounted future lease payments presented in the table above include payments through the term of the lease, which may include periods beyond the noncancellable term. The difference between the total payments above and the lease liability balance is due to the discount rate used to calculate lease liabilities.  
The Company elected to use the package of practical expedients available in ASC Topic 842; and accordingly, did not reassess existing contracts for leases, the classification of existing leases, or initial direct costs for any existing leases. The Company also elected to use the practical expedient available in ASC Topic 842 for land easements.  
The Company did not elect the practical expedient available in ASC Topic 842 to use hindsight in determining the lease term. Accordingly, the remaining lease term as of January 1, 2019 was used to calculate the initial right of use asset and lease liability.  
After completing these phases of cash repatriation, there is approximately $100,000 of unremitted foreign earnings remaining that the Company has deemed not permanently reinvested and thus has accrued foreign withholding and other taxes. The Company continues to evaluate the timing of the reparation of these remaining amounts, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts.   
As part of the Company’s cash repatriation activity, the Company settled an intercompany loan in the second fiscal quarter of 2019, which previously had been accounted for at the historical foreign exchange rate (akin to an equity contribution) because the debtor entity did not have the intent or ability to repay such intercompany loan. Currency translation adjustments were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, and were not included in U.S. GAAP pre-tax income. The Company’s cash repatriation activity resulted in the ability to repay such intercompany loan. Upon settlement of this intercompany loan, the foreign entity realized a taxable gain. Income tax expense for the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019 includes tax expense of $7,554 related to this tax-basis foreign exchange gain.  
The Company’s repurchase of a portion of the outstanding convertible debentures in the first fiscal quarter of 2019 (see Note 7) slightly reduced the Company’s expected 2019 tax rate. The Company recognized a tax benefit on the pre-tax loss on early extinguishment of debt. The Company also recognized a tax benefit of $1,312, reflecting the reduction in deferred tax liabilities related to the special tax attributes of the extinguished debentures.  
On June 5, 2019, the Company entered into a new credit agreement with a consortium of banks led by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders (the "New Credit Facility"), which provides an aggregate commitment of $750,000 of revolving loans available until June 5, 2024. The New Credit Facility replaces Vishay’s previous credit agreement that provided for an aggregate commitment of $640,000, and that was scheduled to mature on December 10, 2020. The New Credit Facility also provides for the ability of Vishay to request up to $300,000 of incremental facilities, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, which could take the form of additional revolving commitments, incremental “term loan A” or “term loan B” facilities, or incremental equivalent debt.  
Borrowings under the New Credit Facility bear interest at LIBOR plus an interest margin. The applicable interest margin is based on Vishay's leverage ratio. Based on Vishay's current leverage ratio, borrowings bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.50%, the same as pursuant to the previous credit agreement. Vishay also pays a commitment fee, also based on its leverage ratio, on undrawn amounts. The undrawn commitment fee, based on Vishay's current leverage ratio, is 0.25% per annum, an improvement of 5 basis points over the previous credit agreement.   
The New Credit Facility allows an unlimited amount of defined “Investments,” which include certain intercompany transactions and acquisitions, provided the Company's pro forma leverage ratio is equal to or less than 2.75 to 1.00. If the Company's pro forma leverage ratio is greater than 2.75 to 1.00, such Investments are subject to certain limitations.  
The New Credit Facility also allows an unlimited amount of defined "Restricted Payments," which include cash dividends and share repurchases, provided the Company's pro forma leverage ratio is equal to or less than 2.50 to 1.00. If the Company's pro forma leverage ratio is greater than 2.50 to 1.00, the New Credit Facility allows such payments up to $100,000 per annum (subject to a cap of $300,000 for the term of the facility, with up to $25,000 of any unused amount of the $100,000 per annum base available for use in the next succeeding calendar year).  
The New Credit Facility continues to limit or restrict the Company and its subsidiaries, from, among other things, incurring indebtedness, incurring liens on its respective assets, making investments and acquisitions (assuming the Company’s pro forma leverage ratio is greater than 2.75 to 1.00), making asset sales, and paying cash dividends and making other restricted payments (assuming the Company's pro forma leverage ratio is greater than 2.50 to 1.00), and requires the Company to comply with other covenants, including the maintenance of specific financial ratios.  
Similar to the previous credit agreement, the New Credit Facility also contains customary events of default, including, but not limited to, failure to pay principal or interest, failure to pay or default under other material debt, material misrepresentation or breach of warranty, violation of certain covenants, a change of control, the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, the insolvency of Vishay or certain of its significant subsidiaries, and the rendering of a judgment in excess of $50,000 against Vishay or its subsidiaries. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the New Credit Facility, Vishay's obligations under the credit facility may be accelerated and the lending commitments under the credit facility may be terminated.  
The quarterly cash dividend program of the Company results in adjustments to the conversion rate and effective conversion price for the convertible debt instruments effective as of the ex-dividend date of each cash dividend. The conversion rate and effective conversion price for the convertible senior notes due 2025 is adjusted for quarterly cash dividends to the extent such dividends exceed $0.085 per share of common stock.  
GAAP requires an issuer to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs are recognized in subsequent periods. The resulting discount on the debt is amortized as non-cash interest expense in future periods.  
Interest is payable on the convertible debt instruments semi-annually at the cash coupon rate; however, the remaining debt discount is being amortized as additional non-cash interest expense using an effective annual interest rate equal to the Company’s estimated nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of issuance. In addition to ordinary interest, contingent interest will accrue in certain circumstances relating to the trading price of the convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 and under certain other circumstances, beginning ten years subsequent to their respective issuance. The convertible senior notes due 2025 do not possess contingent interest features.  
The Company used cash to repurchase $960, $12,288 and $2,168 principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, respectively, in the first fiscal quarter of 2019. The net carrying value of the debentures repurchased were $396, $4,770, and $924, respectively. In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for convertible debentures, the aggregate repurchase payment of $22,695 was allocated between the liability ($7,311) and equity (including temporary equity, $15,384) components of the convertible debentures, using the Company's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of the repurchase. As a result, the Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of convertible debentures of $1,307, including the write-off of a portion of unamortized debt issuance costs. The convertible senior debentures due 2042 have been fully repurchased, and the trustee has confirmed that the Company has satisfied and discharged its obligations under the indenture governing the convertible senior debentures due 2042.  
Reclassifications of pension and other post-retirement actuarial items out of AOCI are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost. See Note 9 for further information.  
The Company maintains various retirement benefit plans.  
The amount of compensation cost related to stock-based payment transactions is measured based on the grant-date fair value of the equity instruments issued. The Company determines compensation cost for restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and phantom stock units based on the grant-date fair value of the underlying common stock adjusted for expected dividends paid over the required vesting period for non-participating awards. Compensation cost is recognized over the period that an officer, employee, or non-employee director provides service in exchange for the award.  
The Company recognizes compensation cost for RSUs that are expected to vest and records cumulative adjustments in the period that the expectation changes.  
The Company currently expects all performance-based RSUs to vest and all of the associated unrecognized compensation cost for performance-based RSUs presented in the table above to be recognized.  
The Company’s 2007 Stock Incentive Program (the “2007 Program”), as amended and restated, permits the grant of up to 6,500,000 shares of restricted stock, unrestricted stock, RSUs, stock options, and phantom stock units, to officers, employees, and non-employee directors of the Company. Such instruments are available for grant until May 20, 2024.  
The 2007 Program authorizes the grant of phantom stock units to the extent provided for in the Company’s employment agreements with certain executives. Each phantom stock unit entitles the recipient to receive a share of common stock at the individual’s termination of employment or any other future date specified in the applicable employment agreement. Phantom stock units participate in dividend distribution on the same basis as the Company's common stock and Class B common stock. Dividend equivalents are issued in the form of additional units of phantom stock. The phantom stock units are fully vested at all times.  
Vishay's reporting segments generate substantially all of their revenue from product sales to the industrial, automotive, telecommunications, computing, consumer products, power supplies, military and aerospace, and medical end markets. A small portion of revenues is from royalties.  
The Company also regularly evaluates gross profit by segment to assist in the analysis of consolidated gross profit. The Company considers segment operating income to be the more important metric because it more fully captures the business operations of the segments.  
The Company’s convertible debt instruments are only convertible for specified periods upon the occurrence of certain events. The Company's convertible debt instruments are not currently convertible. In periods that the convertible debt instruments are not convertible, the certain conditions which could trigger conversion of the debt instruments have been deemed to be non-substantive, and accordingly, the Company assumes the conversion of these instruments in its diluted earnings per share computation during periods in which they are dilutive.  
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of any of the convertible debt instruments in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock. Accordingly, the convertible instruments are included in the diluted earnings per share computation using the “treasury stock method” (similar to options and warrants) rather than the “if converted method” otherwise required for convertible debt. Under the “treasury stock method,” Vishay calculates the number of shares issuable under the terms of the debentures based on the average market price of Vishay common stock during the period, and that number is included in the total diluted shares figure for the period. If the average market price is less than $12.56, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2040, if the average market price is less than $17.21, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2041, and if the average market price is less than $31.45, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior notes due 2025.  
An asset or liability’s classification within the hierarchy is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. There have been no changes in the classification of any financial instruments within the fair value hierarchy in the periods presented.  
The Company holds investments in equity securities that are intended to fund a portion of its pension and other postretirement benefit obligations outside of the United States. The investments are valued based on quoted market prices on the last business day of the period. The fair value measurement of the investments is considered a Level 1 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.  
The convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 contain embedded derivative features that GAAP requires to be bifurcated and remeasured each reporting period. Each quarter, the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative features, if any, is recorded in the consolidated condensed statements of operations. The Company uses a derivative valuation model to derive the value of the embedded derivative features. Key inputs into this valuation model are the Company’s current stock price, risk-free interest rates, the stock dividend yield, the stock volatility, and the debentures’ credit spread over LIBOR. The first three aforementioned inputs are based on observable market data and are considered Level 2 inputs while the last two aforementioned inputs are unobservable and thus require management’s judgment and are considered Level 3 inputs. The fair value measurement is considered a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.  
The fair value of the long-term debt, excluding the derivative liabilities and deferred financing costs, at September 28, 2019 and December 31, 2018 is approximately $592,300 and $577,200, respectively, compared to its carrying value, excluding the derivative liabilities and deferred financing costs, of $513,902 and $509,407, respectively. The Company estimates the fair value of its long-term debt using a combination of quoted market prices for similar financing arrangements and expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates, which are considered Level 2 inputs.  
At September 28, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s short-term investments were comprised of time deposits with financial institutions that have maturities that exceed 90 days from the date of acquisition; however they all mature within one year from the respective balance sheet dates. The Company's short-term investments are accounted for as held-to-maturity debt instruments, at amortized cost, which approximates their fair value. The investments are funded with excess cash not expected to be needed for operations prior to maturity; therefore, the Company believes it has the intent and ability to hold the short-term investments until maturity. At each reporting date, the Company performs an evaluation to determine if any unrealized losses are other-than-temporary. No other-than-temporary impairments have been recognized on these securities, and there are no unrecognized holding gains or losses for these securities during the periods presented. There have been no transfers to or from the held-to-maturity classification. All decreases in the account balance are due to returns of principal at the securities’ maturity dates. Interest on the securities is recognized as interest income when earned.  
At September 28, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents were comprised of demand deposits, time deposits with maturities of three months or less when purchased, and money market funds. The Company estimates the fair value of its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments using level 2 inputs. Based on the current interest rates for similar investments with comparable credit risk and time to maturity, the fair value of the Company's cash, cash equivalents, and held-to-maturity short-term investments approximate the carrying amounts reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets.  
The Company’s financial instruments also include accounts receivable, short-term notes payable, and accounts payable. The carrying amounts for these financial instruments reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets approximate their fair values.  
 Item 1A. Risk Factors     
