Continues on following page. 
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). The ASU is the result of a convergence project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. The ASU removes inconsistencies and weaknesses in revenue requirements; provides a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues; improves comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions, and capital markets; provides more useful information to users of financial statements through expanded disclosure requirements; and simplifies the preparation of financial statements by reducing the number of requirements to which an entity must refer. The Company retrospectively adopted the ASU on January 1, 2018. The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations. See Note 2 and "Changes in Accounting Policies" below. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The ASU is the result of a project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. Upon adoption of the ASU, the Company will recognize lease assets and liabilities for its operating leases which are not currently reported on its consolidated balance sheets. The ASU is effective for the Company for interim and annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with the ability to early adopt. The Company is currently evaluating the effect of the ASU on its lease contracts. 
Except for the changes described in "Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance" above and in this section below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies described in its Note 1 to its audited consolidated financial statement included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, to all periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements. 
The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 as of January 1, 2018 using the full retrospective method. As a result, the Company has changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition. The details of significant changes and quantitative impact of the changes are disclosed below. 
The Company previously recognized revenue when the sales process was completed, which generally occurred when the product was delivered and risk of loss was transferred to the customer. Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company analyzes its contractual arrangements to determine whether the promise in the contract to construct and transfer goods to the customer is a performance obligation that will be satisfied over time or at a point in time. When the Company's performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, the Company transfers control of a good or service over time and, therefore, satisfies a performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time. The Company has a limited number of contracts for custom products that meet the criteria to recognize revenue over time. The dollar amount of these custom products did not materially change during the retrospective adoption period. The Company recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment of $2,210 to January 1, 2016 retained earnings (accumulated deficit) and recorded adjustments to its consolidated balance sheets due to the impact of recognizing revenue for certain custom products over time rather than at a point in time.  
ASU 2014-09 provides several transition practical expedients. The Company has not restated completed contracts that begin and end in the same annual reporting period; used the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods; has not disclosed the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize the amount as revenue for the reporting periods presented prior to January 1, 2016; and has not retrospectively restated the contract for modifications made prior to January 1, 2016 and instead reflected the aggregate effect of all modifications when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price pursuant to the transition practical expedients available. 
The Company retrospectively adopted ASU 2017-07 as of January 1, 2018. As a result, the Company has changed its accounting policy for pension and other postretirement benefits costs as detailed below. 
ASU 2017-07 amends the income statement presentation requirements of net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. The service cost component of net periodic pension cost is recorded in the same line item or items as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by the pertinent employees during the period, and other components of net periodic pension cost are included on a separate line within other income (expense). The Company reclassified net benefit costs other than the current service component previously reported as cost of goods sold and selling, general, and administrative expenses to other expenses for each quarter in the retrospective adoption period in the table below. The Company also reclassified the $79,321 U.S. pension settlement charges recorded for the year ended December 31, 2016 to other expenses. See the impact of this change in the tables below. 
In addition to the changes due to the retrospective adoption of certain aspects of new accounting guidance described above, certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current financial statement presentation. 
As of January 1, 2018, the Company recognizes revenue from contracts with customers in accordance with ASU 2014-09. The Company has framework agreements with many of its customers that contain the terms and conditions of future sales, but do not create enforceable rights or obligations. Per ASU 2014-09, the Company's contracts are the combined purchase orders and the terms and conditions contained within such framework agreements. 
Payment terms for the Company's sales are generally less than sixty days. Substantially all of the Company's receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward. The Company applies the practical expedient within ASU 2014-09 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component of the transaction price. 
The Company has a broad line of products that it sells to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), electronic manufacturing services ("EMS") companies, which manufacture for OEMs on an outsourcing basis, and independent distributors that maintain large inventories of electronic components for resale to OEMs and EMS companies. 
The Company has and will continue to recognize revenue on sales to distributors when the distributor takes control of the products ("sold-to" model). The Company has agreements with distributors that allow distributors a limited credit for unsaleable products, which it terms a "scrap allowance." Consistent with industry practice, the Company also has a "stock, ship and debit" program whereby it considers requests by distributors for credits on previously purchased products that remain in distributors' inventory, to enable the distributors to offer more competitive pricing. In addition, the Company has contractual arrangements whereby it provides distributors with protection against price reductions initiated by the Company after product is sold by the Company to the distributor and prior to resale by the distributor. 
The Company pays commissions to external sales representatives on a per-sale basis. The Company applies the practical expedient available within ASU 2014-09 to all commissions paid as the future amortization period of the asset that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less. Accordingly, these commissions are expensed as incurred. Internal staff are not paid commissions. 
The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the product even if the shipping and handling activities are performed after the customer obtains control. The Company does not evaluate whether shipping and handling activities are promised services to its customers. If control transfers and revenue is recognized for the related products before the shipping and handling activities occur, the related costs of those shipping and handling activities is accrued. The Company applies this accounting policy election consistently to similar types of transactions. 
As part of its growth strategy, the Company seeks to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which the Company has substantial marketing and technical expertise. 
Severance benefits are generally paid in a lump sum at cessation of employment. The entire liability is considered current and is included in other accrued expenses in the accompanying consolidated condensed balance sheets.  
Severance benefits are generally paid in a lump sum at cessation of employment, though some are being paid in installments. The current portion of the liability is $4,222 and is included in other accrued expenses in the accompanying consolidated condensed balance sheets. The non-current portion of the liability is included in other liabilities in the accompanying consolidated condensed balance sheets. 
Furthermore, the Company is continuing to evaluate the TCJA's provisions and may prospectively adjust its financial and capital structure and business practices accordingly. 
During the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018, the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits increased by $568 on a net basis, due to increases for tax positions taken in the current period, interest, and foreign currency effects. 
Vishay currently has three issuances of convertible senior debentures outstanding with generally congruent terms. The quarterly cash dividend program of the Company results in adjustments to the conversion rate and effective conversion price for each issuance of the Company's convertible senior debentures effective as of the ex-dividend date of each cash dividend. 
The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of Vishay's common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods. The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of Vishay's common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods. The debentures due 2040 and due 2042 will remain convertible until June 30, 2018, at which time the conversion criteria will be reevaluated. At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon future conversion of any of the convertible senior debentures, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock. The excess of the amount that the Company would pay to the holders of the debentures due 2040 and due 2042 upon conversion over the carrying value of the liability component of the debentures currently convertible has been reclassified as temporary equity on the consolidated condensed financial statements. The Company intends to finance the principal amount of any converted debentures using borrowings under its credit facility. Accordingly, the debt component of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 continues to be classified as a non-current liability on the consolidated condensed balance sheets. 
GAAP requires an issuer to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs are recognized in subsequent periods. The resulting discount on the debt is amortized as non-cash interest expense in future periods. 
Interest is payable on the debentures semi-annually at the cash coupon rate; however, the remaining debt discount is being amortized as additional non-cash interest expense using an effective annual interest rate equal to the Company's estimated nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of issuance. In addition to ordinary interest, contingent interest will accrue in certain circumstances relating to the trading price of the debentures and under certain other circumstances beginning ten years subsequent to issuance. 
The Company recognized a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings (accumulated deficit) of $1,801 for the cumulative change in fair value of available-for-sale equity investments previously recognized in other comprehensive income due to the adoption of ASU 2016-01. See Note 1 for further information. 
Reclassifications of pension and other post-retirement actuarial items out of AOCI are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost. See Note 8 for further information. 
The Company maintains various retirement benefit plans. 
The Company recognizes compensation cost for RSUs that are expected to vest and records cumulative adjustments in the period that the expectation changes. 
The Company currently expects all performance-based RSUs to vest and all of the associated unrecognized compensation cost for performance-based RSUs presented in the table above to be recognized. 
The Company's 2007 Stock Incentive Program (the "2007 Program"), as amended and restated, permits the grant of up to 6,500,000 shares of restricted stock, unrestricted stock, RSUs, stock options, and phantom stock units, to officers, employees, and non-employee directors of the Company. Such instruments are available for grant until May 20, 2024. 
The 2007 Program authorizes the grant of phantom stock units to the extent provided for in the Company's employment agreements with certain executives. Each phantom stock unit entitles the recipient to receive a share of common stock at the individual's termination of employment or any other future date specified in the applicable employment agreement. Phantom stock units participate in dividend distribution on the same basis as the Company's common stock and Class B common stock. Dividend equivalents are issued in the form of additional units of phantom stock. The phantom stock units are fully vested at all times. 
Vishay's reporting segments generate substantially all of their revenue from product sales to the industrial, automotive, telecommunications, computing, consumer products, power supplies, military and aerospace, and medical end markets. A small portion of revenues is from royalties. 
The Company also regularly evaluates gross profit by segment to assist in the analysis of consolidated gross profit. The Company considers segment operating income to be the more important metric because it more fully captures the business operations of the segments. 
The Company's convertible debt instruments are only convertible for specified periods upon the occurrence of certain events. The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation. The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation. In periods that the debentures are not convertible, the certain conditions which could trigger conversion of the remaining debentures have been deemed to be non-substantive, and accordingly, the Company assumes the conversion of these instruments in its diluted earnings per share computation during periods in which they are dilutive. 
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock. Accordingly, the debentures are included in the diluted earnings per share computation using the "treasury stock method" (similar to options and warrants) rather than the "if converted method" otherwise required for convertible debt. Under the "treasury stock method," Vishay calculates the number of shares issuable under the terms of the debentures based on the average market price of Vishay common stock during the period, and that number is included in the total diluted shares figure for the period. If the average market price is less than $12.91, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2040, if the average market price is less than $17.69, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2041, and if the average market price is less than $10.98, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2042. 
An asset or liability's classification within the hierarchy is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. There have been no changes in the classification of any financial instruments within the fair value hierarchy in the periods presented. 
The Company holds investments in equity securities that are intended to fund a portion of its pension and other postretirement benefit obligations outside of the United States. The investments are valued based on quoted market prices on the last business day of the period. The fair value measurement of the investments is considered a Level 1 measurement within the fair value hierarchy. 
The convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, issued by the Company on November 9, 2010, May 13, 2011, and May 31, 2012, respectively, contain embedded derivative features that GAAP requires to be bifurcated and remeasured each reporting period. Each quarter, the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative features, if any, is recorded in the consolidated condensed statements of operations. The Company uses a derivative valuation model to derive the value of the embedded derivative features. Key inputs into this valuation model are the Company's current stock price, risk-free interest rates, the stock dividend yield, the stock volatility, and the debentures' credit spread over LIBOR. The first three aforementioned inputs are based on observable market data and are considered Level 2 inputs while the last two aforementioned inputs are unobservable and thus require management's judgment and are considered Level 3 inputs. The fair value measurement is considered a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy. 
The Company enters into forward contracts with highly-rated financial institutions to mitigate the foreign currency risk associated with intercompany loans denominated in a currency other than the legal entity's functional currency. The notional amount of the forward contracts was $100,000 and $100,000 as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The forward contracts are short-term in nature and are expected to be renewed at the Company's discretion until the intercompany loans are repaid. We have not designated the forward contracts as hedges for accounting purposes, and as such the change in the fair value of the contracts is recognized in the consolidated condensed statements of operations as a component of other income (expense). The Company estimates the fair value of the forward contracts based on applicable and commonly used pricing models using current market information and is considered a Level 2 measurement within the fair value hierarchy. The value of the forward contracts was immaterial as of March 31, 2018. The Company does not utilize derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. 
The fair value of the long-term debt, excluding the derivative liabilities and deferred financing costs, at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 is approximately $1,015,400 and $1,071,200, respectively, compared to its carrying value, excluding the derivative liabilities and deferred financing costs, of $414,342 and $379,033, respectively. The Company estimates the fair value of its long-term debt using a combination of quoted market prices for similar financing arrangements and expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates, which are considered Level 2 inputs. 
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company's short-term investments were comprised of time deposits with financial institutions that have maturities that exceed 90 days from the date of acquisition; however they all mature within one year from the respective balance sheet dates. The Company's short-term investments are accounted for as held-to-maturity debt instruments, at amortized cost, which approximates their fair value. The investments are funded with excess cash not expected to be needed for operations prior to maturity; therefore, the Company believes it has the intent and ability to hold the short-term investments until maturity. At each reporting date, the Company performs an evaluation to determine if any unrealized losses are other-than-temporary. No other-than-temporary impairments have been recognized on these securities, and there are no unrecognized holding gains or losses for these securities during the periods presented. There have been no transfers to or from the held-to-maturity classification. All decreases in the account balance are due to returns of principal at the securities' maturity dates. Interest on the securities is recognized as interest income when earned. 
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company's cash and cash equivalents were comprised of demand deposits, time deposits with maturities of three months or less when purchased, and money market funds. The Company estimates the fair value of its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments using level 2 inputs. Based on the current interest rates for similar investments with comparable credit risk and time to maturity, the fair value of the Company's cash, cash equivalents, and held-to-maturity short-term investments approximate the carrying amounts reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets. 
The Company's financial instruments also include accounts receivable, short-term notes payable, and accounts payable. The carrying amounts for these financial instruments reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets approximate their fair values. 
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018, describe certain of our legal proceedings. Except as described below, there have been no material developments to the legal proceedings previously disclosed. 
Holy Stone has agreed to indemnify Vishay and VPC for losses, including penalties and expenses associated with the investigation described above. 
 Item 1A.  Risk Factors     
