We are focused on enhancing stockholder value and improving earnings per share. In addition to our growth plan, we also have opportunistically repurchased our stock. In 2014, our Board of Directors instituted a quarterly dividend payment program and declared the first cash dividend in the history of Vishay. In December 2015, we amended our credit facility to increase our ability to repurchase shares of stock or pay cash dividends. On August 2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase plan, authorizing us to repurchase, in the aggregate, up to $150 million of our outstanding common stock. The stock repurchase plan will expire on June 1, 2018. The stock repurchase plan does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and it may be terminated or suspended at any time at the Company's direction in accordance with the plan. The Company repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million since the inception of this plan. No repurchases were made in the first fiscal quarter of 2018. 
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. See further discussion in "Financial Metrics" and "Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources" below. In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we retrospectively adopted two new accounting standards, which impacted previously reported net revenues, gross profit margin, and segment operating income. The amounts previously reported for these metrics have been recast. See additional information in Note 1 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. We experienced a continued high level of demand in virtually all end-markets in the first fiscal quarter of 2018. Net revenues increased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year quarter. The strong order levels of 2017 continued in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 and resulted in continued strong metrics and an increase in nearly all key financial metrics compared to the prior quarter and prior year quarter. 
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $716.8 million, compared to $673.5 million and $604.8 million for the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2017 and April 1, 2017, respectively. The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $62.4 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, compared to net loss attributable to Vishay stockholders of $(177.7) million, or $(1.23) per share for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2017, and net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders of $36.7 million, or $0.24 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2017. 
We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for various items that management believes are not indicative of the intrinsic operating performance of our business. We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. The reconciliations below include certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash. These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as alternatives to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. Non-GAAP measures such as adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash do not have uniform definitions. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Management believes that adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are meaningful because they provide insight with respect to our intrinsic operating results. Management believes that free cash is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends. 
Although the term "free cash" is not defined in GAAP, each of the elements used to calculate free cash for the year-to-date period is presented as a line item on the face of our consolidated condensed statement of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP and the quarterly amounts are derived from the year-to-date GAAP statements as of the beginning and end of the respective quarter. 
Our results for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2018, December 31, 2017, and April 1, 2017 represent the effects of a strong business environment and order activity, our cost reduction programs, and our organic growth initiatives. We experienced a relatively sharp upturn in demand beginning in the first quarter of 2017 that has continued through first fiscal quarter of 2018 and further improved results. Our percentage of euro-based sales approximates our percentage of euro-based expenses so the foreign currency impact on revenues was substantially offset by the impact on expenses. Our pre-tax results were consistent with expectations based on our business model. 
We utilize several financial metrics to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. These key financial measures and metrics include net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, and the book-to-bill ratio. We also monitor changes in inventory turnover and our or publicly available average selling prices ("ASP"). 
Gross profit margin is computed as gross profit as a percentage of net revenues. Gross profit is generally net revenues less costs of products sold, but also deducts certain other period costs, particularly losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs. Losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs have the impact of reducing gross profit margin in the period of the charge, but result in improved gross profit margins in subsequent periods by reducing costs of products sold as inventory is used. Gross profit margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues. We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin. Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income. Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gains or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues. We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment. Operating margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
An important indicator of demand in our industry is the book-to-bill ratio, which is the ratio of the amount of product ordered during a period as compared with the product that we ship during that period. A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods. Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues. 
See "Financial Metrics by Segment" below for net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, and gross profit margin broken out by segment. 
Revenues increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and first fiscal quarter of 2017. The continued strong demand further increased the backlog while the book-to-bill ratio remains high. Distributors continue to drive the high order rate. Many of our product lines are operating at or near capacity, but the high order rates have increased product delivery leadtimes and even caused some shortages of supply. We continue to raise critical capacities ambitiously while remaining careful in adding operational fixed costs. Sequentially, average selling prices were virtually stable, reflective of the strong business environment. 
Gross profit margin increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and the first fiscal quarter of 2017. The increases are primarily volume-driven with decreasing average selling prices burdening each period. 
The book-to-bill ratio in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 remained strong at 1.22 versus 1.28 in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017. The book-to-bill ratios in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 for distributors and original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") were 1.28 and 1.16, respectively, versus ratios of 1.40 and 1.13, respectively, during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017. 
For the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we anticipate revenues between $740 million and $780 million and gross margins of 28.5% to 29.5% at the exchange rates of the first fiscal quarter. 
As a result of the TCJA, we recognized a provisional tax benefit of $74.8 million to remeasure our net deferred tax liabilities at the lower, 21% rate. 
The deferred tax liability related to these unremitted foreign earnings is based on the available sources of cash, applicable tax rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other factors and circumstances, as of each balance sheet date. Changes in these underlying facts and circumstances result in changes in the deferred tax liability balance, which are recorded as tax benefit or expense. During the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we recorded additional tax expense of $1.3 million due to the remeasurement of this deferred tax liability, primarily due to foreign currency effects. 
We historically derived significant cash tax savings from our convertible debentures. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the interest deduction for the convertible debentures is computed based on the comparable yield of a hypothetical fixed rate debt instrument with similar terms and conditions but no conversion feature. Accordingly, annual interest deductions are calculated at 8.0%, 8.375%, and 7.5% of the adjusted issue price. The adjusted issue price, and consequently the interest deduction for income tax purposes, grows over the term of the debt due to the difference between the interest deduction using a comparable yield applied to the adjusted issue price, and the coupon rate of 2.5% on the principal amount. Interest expense recognized in accordance with GAAP is calculated at the comparable yield multiplied by the carrying amount of the liability component of convertible debentures, which is substantially lower than the adjusted issue price for tax purposes. The difference between the tax and GAAP interest computations resulted in substantially greater interest deductions for tax purposes than GAAP interest expense. The TCJA limits deduction for net interest expense, which makes the convertible debentures less attractive financial instruments. While the convertible debentures due 2040 and 2042 are currently convertible at the option of the holders, none of the convertible debentures are currently callable by us. We are evaluating financing alternatives, which might include the modification or replacement of such instruments, as a result of the TCJA. 
The effects of the various TCJA provisions are all interrelated and the impact of any specific item on our effective tax rate is difficult to isolate. 
As part of our growth strategy, we seek to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which we have substantial marketing and technical expertise. This includes exploring opportunities to acquire targets to gain market share, penetrate different geographic markets, enhance new product development, round out our existing product lines, or grow our high margin niche market businesses. Acquisitions of passive components businesses would likely be made to strengthen and broaden our position as a specialty product supplier; acquisitions of discrete semiconductor businesses would be made to increase market share and to generate synergies. To limit our financial exposure, we have implemented a policy not to pursue acquisitions if our post-acquisition debt would exceed 2.5x our pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA"). For these purposes, we calculate pro forma EBITDA as the adjusted EBITDA of Vishay and the target for Vishay's four preceding fiscal quarters, with a pro forma adjustment for savings which management estimates would have been achieved had the target been acquired by Vishay at the beginning of the four fiscal quarter period. 
There is no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire additional suitable acquisition candidates at price levels and on terms and conditions we consider acceptable. 
We place a strong emphasis on controlling our costs, and use various measures and metrics to evaluate our cost structure. 
We define variable costs as expenses that vary with respect to quantity produced. Fixed costs do not vary with respect to quantity produced over the relevant time period. Contributive margin is calculated as net revenue less variable costs. It may be expressed in dollars or as a percentage of net revenue. Management uses this measure to determine the amount of profit to be expected for any change in revenues. While these measures are typical cost accounting measures, none of these measures are recognized in accordance with GAAP. The classification of expenses as either variable or fixed is judgmental and other companies might classify such expenses differently. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 
Our long-term strategy includes growth through the integration of acquired businesses, and GAAP requires plant closure and employee termination costs that we incur in connection with our acquisition activities to be recorded as expenses in our consolidated statement of operations, as such expenses are incurred. We have not incurred any material plant closure or employee termination costs related to any of the businesses acquired since 2011, but we expect to have some level of future restructuring expenses due to acquisitions. 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. We occasionally use forward exchange contracts to economically hedge a portion of these exposures. 
GAAP requires that we identify the "functional currency" of each of our subsidiaries and measure all elements of the financial statements in that functional currency. A subsidiary's functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. In cases where a subsidiary is relatively self-contained within a particular country, the local currency is generally deemed to be the functional currency. However, a foreign subsidiary that is a direct and integral component or extension of the parent company's operations generally would have the parent company's currency as its functional currency. We have both situations among our subsidiaries. 
We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the local currency as their functional currency. For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, assets and liabilities in the consolidated condensed balance sheets have been translated at the rate of exchange as of the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments do not impact the results of operations and are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. 
For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, revenues and expenses incurred in the local currency are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. While the translation of revenues and expenses incurred in the local currency into U.S. dollars does not directly impact the statements of operations, the translation effectively increases or decreases the U.S. dollar equivalent of revenues generated and expenses incurred in those foreign currencies.  The dollar generally was weaker during the first fiscal quarter of 2018 compared to the prior quarter and prior year quarter, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars increasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter. 
Foreign Subsidiaries which use the U.S. Dollar as the Functional Currency 
Our operations in Israel and most significant locations in Asia are largely financed in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. For those foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, all foreign currency financial statement amounts are remeasured into U.S. dollars. Exchange gains and losses arising from remeasurement of foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities are included in the results of operations. While these subsidiaries transact most business in U.S. dollars, they may have significant costs, particularly payroll-related, which are incurred in the local currency.  The cost of products sold and selling, general, and administrative expense for the first fiscal quarter of 2018 have been unfavorably impacted (compared to the prior quarter and prior year quarter) by local currency transactions of subsidiaries which use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. 
We enter into forward contracts with highly-rated financial institutions to mitigate the foreign currency risk associated with intercompany loans denominated in a currency other than the legal entity's functional currency. The notional amount of the forward contracts was $100.0 million as of March 31, 2018. The forward contracts are short-term in nature and are expected to be renewed at our discretion until the intercompany loans are repaid. The forward contracts are carried at fair value in our consolidated condensed balance sheets. We have not designated the forward contracts as hedges for accounting purposes, and as such the change in the fair value of the contracts is recognized in our consolidated condensed statements of operations as a component of other income (expense). We do not utilize derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. 
We experienced a substantial, broad-based increase in demand for our products beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through the first fiscal quarter of 2018, which resulted in increased net revenues compared to the prior fiscal quarter and first fiscal quarter of 2017. 
Analysis of revenues and gross profit margins for our segments is provided below. 
In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, the MOSFETs segment experienced significant growth in net revenues versus the prior year quarter and moderate growth versus the prior quarter. All regions and sales channels contributed to the significant increase versus the prior year quarter with Americas and European distributors experiencing above average growth. Our IC products business contributed strongly to the increase in Asia. The moderate increase versus the prior quarter was primarily due to significant growth in Europe.  
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the first fiscal quarter of 2018, the reduction in the pricing pressure from last year continued for our established MOSFETs products. Price increases for select products and ongoing price reductions for other products resulted in a slight increase of average selling prices versus the prior quarter and a slight decline versus the prior year quarter. 
We recently completed major cost reduction activities, which had been ongoing since 2013, to improve the operating results of the MOSFETs segment. See Note 4 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 
The positive business climate mostly eliminated the pricing pressure for our established Diodes products. The slight increases in average selling prices is primarily due to a more favorable customer mix. 
In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, the Optoelectronic Components segment experienced a moderate increase in net revenues versus the prior quarter and a significant increase versus the prior year quarter. The increase versus the prior quarter was primarily achieved with distribution customers in all regions and European end customers, partially offset by decreases with Asian and American end customers. The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to a stronger euro and increases with distribution customers in Americas and Europe and end customers in Europe, partially offset by decreases with distribution customers in Asia and Asian and American end customers. 
The gross profit margin increased versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter. The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased net revenues, the currency impacts of a stronger euro, which impacted revenues more than expenses, and increased efficiencies. The increase versus the prior quarter is primarily due to increased net revenues, the positive impact of an inventory increase, increased efficiencies, as well as cost reduction measures that exceeded the impacts of cost inflation and lower average selling prices. 
The pricing pressure for our established Optoelectronic Components products was slightly reduced versus prior years, but continues. We experienced a slight decline in average selling prices versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter. 
The gross profit margin improved versus the prior quarter and the prior year quarter. The increased net revenues, favorable foreign currency impacts, cost reduction, and volume efficiencies are the main contributors to the improvement. 
Average selling prices decreased slightly versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter, consistent with our historical experience. 
Market demand currently exceeds our capacity for certain product lines. Capital spending projects to expand capacity are underway to meet the increased demand. 
Net revenues of the Capacitors segment for the first fiscal quarter of 2018 increased significantly versus the prior year quarter and slightly versus the prior quarter. The Europe region contributed most to the growth in net revenues versus the prior year quarter, while revenues for the Asia and Americas regions remained relatively constant. The industrial and automotive end markets were main contributors to the sales growth versus the prior year quarter. 
The gross profit margin in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 increased versus the prior quarter and the prior year quarter. The increase versus the prior quarter is primarily due to a more favorable product mix and manufacturing efficiencies. The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased net revenues and manufacturing efficiencies. 
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the first fiscal quarter of 2018, average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior quarter and decreased slightly versus the prior year quarter. 
Certain intangible assets became fully amortized in the second fiscal quarter of 2017. 
We now classify pension costs other than the current service component within other income (expense). These amounts were previously reported as cost of goods sold and selling, general, and administrative expenses. Prior periods have been recast due to the adoption of ASU 2017-07 on January 1, 2018. See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 
In 2017, we sold our 50% interest in an investment accounted for using the equity method, and recorded a loss aggregating to $6.1 million. The loss recorded in March 2017 included our proportionate share of the investee's accumulated other comprehensive loss of $1.1 million, recognized upon discontinuation of the equity investment, and the estimated cost of certain contingencies pending resolution related to the investee. In December 2017, the contingencies were favorably settled and we reduced the loss by $0.9 million. The loss on disposal is not deductible for income tax purposes. 
†Recognized in "Other" subsequent to the prospective adoption of ASU 2016-01. Previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income until realized. See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 
†Recognized in "Other" subsequent to the prospective adoption of ASU 2016-01. Previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income until realized. See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 
For the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018, our effective tax rate was 32.0%, as compared to 364.8% and 26.7% for the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2017 and April 1, 2017, respectively. Historically, the effective tax rates were generally less than the pre-2018 U.S. statutory rate primarily because of earnings in foreign jurisdictions. With the reduction in the U.S. statutory rate to 21% beginning January 1, 2018, we expect that our effective tax rate will now be higher than the U.S. statutory rate. The effective tax rate for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2017 is higher than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to certain discrete items recorded in the period. 
During the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we recorded additional tax expense of $1.3 million due to the remeasurement of the deferred tax liability related to our cash repatriation program, primarily due to foreign currency effects. These types of remeasurement adjustments will continue until the amounts are repatriated. 
During the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018, the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits increased by $0.6 million on a net basis, due to increases for tax positions taken in the current period, interest, and foreign currency effects. 
We focus on our ability to generate cash flows from operations. The cash generated from operations is used to fund our capital expenditure plans, and cash in excess of our capital expenditure needs is available to fund our acquisition strategy, to reduce debt levels, and to pay dividends and repurchase stock. We have generated cash flows from operations in excess of $200 million in each of the past 16 years, and cash flows from operations in excess of $100 million in each of the past 23 years. 
Management uses a non-GAAP measure, "free cash," to evaluate our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends. See "Overview" above for "free cash" definition and reconciliation to GAAP. Vishay has generated positive "free cash" in each of the past 21 years, and "free cash" in excess of $80 million in each of the past 16 years. In this volatile economic environment, we continue to focus on the generation of free cash, including an emphasis on cost controls. 
We continued to generate positive cash flows from operations and free cash during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018. We expect to generate free cash in 2018 in line with our history. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to continue to generate cash flows from operations and free cash at the same levels, or at all, going forward if the current economic environment worsens. The payment of any cash taxes associated with the TCJA transition tax and related foreign taxes on repatriated cash will generally be recorded as operating cash flows. 
The credit facility allows an unlimited amount of defined "Restricted Payments," which include cash dividends to stockholders and share repurchases, provided our pro forma leverage ratio is less than 2.25 to 1. If our leverage ratio is greater than 2.25 to 1, the credit facility allows such payments up to $75 million per annum (subject to a cap of $225 million for the term of the facility). The credit facility provides us with significantly more flexibility to execute these transactions, and our ability to utilize some of our foreign-source income for these types of transactions provides even further financial flexibility. 
Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus an interest margin. The applicable interest margin is based on our leverage ratio. Based on our leverage ratio for the first fiscal quarter of 2018, borrowings bore interest at LIBOR plus 1.75%. The interest rate on our borrowings will increase to LIBOR plus 2.00% if our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 2.50 to 1 and will decrease to LIBOR plus 1.50% if our leverage ratio decreases below 1.50 to 1. Based on our leverage ratio as of the end of the first fiscal quarter of 2018, new borrowings will bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.50%. 
The borrowings under the credit facility are secured by a lien on substantially all assets, including accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, and general intangibles (but excluding real estate, intellectual property registered or licensed for use in, or arising under the laws of, any country other than the United States, assets located outside of the United States and deposit and securities accounts), of Vishay and certain significant subsidiaries located in the United States, and pledges of stock in certain significant domestic and foreign subsidiaries; and are guaranteed by certain significant subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries are permitted to borrow under the credit facility, subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions. Any borrowings by these subsidiaries under the credit facility will be guaranteed by Vishay and certain subsidiaries. 
We were in compliance with all financial covenants under the credit facility at March 31, 2018. Our interest expense coverage ratio and leverage ratio were 15.70 to 1 and 1.46 to 1, respectively. We expect to continue to be in compliance with these covenants based on current projections. 
If we are not in compliance with all of the required financial covenants, the credit facility could be terminated by the lenders, and all amounts outstanding pursuant to the credit facility could become immediately payable. Additionally, our convertible senior debentures due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042 have cross-default provisions that could accelerate repayment in the event the indebtedness under the credit facility is accelerated. 
Prior to three months before the maturity date, our convertible senior debentures are convertible by the holders under certain circumstances. The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of our common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods. The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of our common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods. Such debentures will remain convertible until June 30, 2018, at which time the conversion criteria will be reevaluated. At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amount of the convertible debentures in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of our common stock. We intend to finance the principal amount of any converted debentures using borrowings under our credit facility. Accordingly, the debt component of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 continues to be classified as a noncurrent liability on the consolidated condensed balance sheets. No conversions have occurred to date. The convertible debentures due 2041 are not currently convertible. 
As of March 31, 2018, substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were held in countries outside of the United States. 
Additionally, cash dividends to stockholders, share repurchases, and principal and interest payments on our debt instruments need to be paid by the U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. Our U.S. subsidiaries have other operating cash needs. Our substantially undrawn credit facility provides us with significant operating liquidity in the United States. 
Management expects to periodically pay down the balance of our revolving credit facility with available cash or use the credit facility to meet short-term financing needs. We expect that cash on-hand and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our longer-term financing needs related to normal operating requirements, regular dividend payments, and our research and development and capital expenditure plans. Additional acquisition activity, share repurchases, or conversion of our convertible debentures may require additional borrowing under our credit facility or may otherwise require us to incur additional debt. No principal payments on our debt are due before the maturity of our revolving credit facility in December 2020. As described above, we plan to repatriate cash to the U.S. to satisfy the TCJA transition tax, which is payable in increments over eight years. 
We invest a portion of our excess cash in highly liquid, high-quality instruments with maturities greater than 90 days, but less than 1 year, which we classify as short-term investments on our consolidated balance sheets. As these investments were funded using a portion of excess cash and represent a significant aspect of our cash management strategy, we include the investments in the calculation of net cash and short-term investments (debt). 
The interest rates on our short-term investments vary by location, but can be up to 150 bps higher than the interest rates on our cash accounts. The average interest rate on our short-term investments was 0.7% due to the low interest rate environment in Europe. Transactions related to these investments are classified as investing activities on our consolidated condensed statements of cash flows. 
"Net cash and short-term investments (debt)" does not have a uniform definition and is not recognized in accordance with GAAP. This measure should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. However, management believes that an analysis of "net cash and short-term investments (debt)" assists investors in understanding aspects of our cash and debt management. The measure, as calculated by us, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 
Cash paid for property and equipment for the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018 was $28.3 million, as compared to $16.7 million for the three fiscal months ended April 1, 2017. We expect capital spending of approximately $225 million in 2018. The increase versus prior expectations is due to foreign currency exchange rate impacts and some customer specific requirements. Some of this 2018 capital spending represents an acceleration of expected expansion from later years of our long-range plan. 
Cash paid for dividends to our common and Class B common stockholders totalled $9.7 million and $9.1 million for the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, respectively. On May 7, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.085 per share, representing a 26% increase over the previous quarterly dividend. We expect dividend payments in 2018 to total approximately $46.5 million. However, any future dividend declaration and payment remains subject to authorization by our Board of Directors. 
On August 2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase plan, authorizing us to repurchase, in the aggregate, up to $150 million of our outstanding common stock. The stock repurchase plan will expire on June 1, 2018. The stock repurchase plan does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and it may be terminated or suspended at any time at the Company's direction in accordance with the plan. We repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million since the inception of this plan. We did not repurchase any shares of stock in the first fiscal quarter of 2018. 
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed on February 16, 2018, includes a table of contractual commitments. There were no material changes to these commitments since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K other than a $14.4 million increase to the non-current portion of the U.S. transition tax payable due to a reclassification from current liabilities based on guidance from the United States Internal Revenue Service on quarterly estimated payments on the transition tax. 
We do not participate in nor have we created any off-balance sheet variable interest entities or other off-balance sheet financing, other than the operating leases described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 
In 2014, our Board of Directors approved the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend program. Cash dividends of $0.0625 per share of common stock and Class B common stock were paid in the first three fiscal quarters of 2017. The quarterly cash dividend was increased to $0.0675 per share of common stock and Class B common stock in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017. The quarterly cash dividend was increased to $0.085 per share of common stock and Class B common stock in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, although each dividend is subject to approval by our Board of Directors. 
