Continues on following page.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31.
The four fiscal quarters in 2018 end on March 31, 2018, June 30, 2018, September 29, 2018, and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The four fiscal quarters in 2017 ended on April 1, 2017, July 1, 2017, September 30, 2017, and December 31, 2017, respectively.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
The ASU is the result of a convergence project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
The ASU removes inconsistencies and weaknesses in revenue requirements; provides a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues; improves comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions, and capital markets; provides more useful information to users of financial statements through expanded disclosure requirements; and simplifies the preparation of financial statements by reducing the number of requirements to which an entity must refer.
The Company retrospectively adopted the ASU on January 1, 2018.
The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations.
See Note 2 and "Changes in Accounting Policies" below.
Upon adoption of the ASU, the Company will recognize lease assets and liabilities for its operating leases which are not currently reported on its consolidated balance sheets.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of the ASU on its lease contracts.
Except for the changes described in "Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance" above and in this section below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies described in its Note 1 to its audited consolidated financial statement included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, to all periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements.
As a result, the Company has changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition.
ASU 2014-09 introduces the concept of service-type warranties, which represent separate performance obligations.
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company considers its warranty obligations as service-type warranties and allocates a portion of the estimated consideration to be received from the related contract to the service-type warranty performance obligation and recognizes the related revenue over the warranty period.
The impact of accounting for service-type warranties as separate performance obligations was not significant in the retrospective adoption period and is included in the tables below.
See further discussion of the warranty obligations in Note 2.
The Company previously recognized revenue when the sales process was completed, which generally occurred when the product was delivered and risk of loss was transferred to the customer.
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company analyzes its contractual arrangements to determine whether the promise in the contract to construct and transfer goods to the customer is a performance obligation that will be satisfied over time or at a point in time.
When the Company's performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, the Company transfers control of a good or service over time and, therefore, satisfies a performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time.
The Company has a limited number of contracts for custom products that meet the criteria to recognize revenue over time.
The dollar amount of these custom products did not materially change during the retrospective adoption period.
The Company has not restated completed contracts that begin and end in the same annual reporting period; used the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods; has not disclosed the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize the amount as revenue for the reporting periods presented prior to January 1, 2016; and has not retrospectively restated the contract for modifications made prior to January 1, 2016 and instead reflected the aggregate effect of all modifications when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price pursuant to the transition practical expedients available.
The Company retrospectively adopted ASU No.
As a result, the Company has changed its accounting policy for pension and other postretirement benefits costs as detailed below.
ASU 2017-07 amends the income statement presentation requirements of net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
The Company also reclassified the $79,321 U.S. pension settlement charges recorded for the year ended December 31, 2016 to other expenses.
See the impact of this change in the tables below.
In addition to the changes due to the retrospective adoption of certain aspects of new accounting guidance described above, certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current financial statement presentation.
As of January 1, 2018, the Company recognizes revenue from contracts with customers in accordance with ASU 2014-09.
The Company has framework agreements with many of its customers that contain the terms and conditions of future sales, but do not create enforceable rights or obligations.
Per ASU 2014-09, the Company's contracts are the combined purchase orders and the terms and conditions contained within such framework agreements.
Payment terms for the Company's sales are generally less than sixty days.
Substantially all of the Company's receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward.
The Company applies the practical expedient within ASU 2014-09 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component of the transaction price.
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in contracts with customers, and excludes any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies its performance obligations.
The Company has a broad line of products that it sells to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), electronic manufacturing services ("EMS") companies, which manufacture for OEMs on an outsourcing basis, and independent distributors that maintain large inventories of electronic components for resale to OEMs and EMS companies.
The Company has and will continue to recognize revenue on sales to distributors when the distributor takes control of the products ("sold-to" model).
The Company has agreements with distributors that allow distributors a limited credit for unsaleable products, which it terms a "scrap allowance."
Consistent with industry practice, the Company also has a "stock, ship and debit" program whereby it considers requests by distributors for credits on previously purchased products that remain in distributors' inventory, to enable the distributors to offer more competitive pricing.
In addition, the Company has contractual arrangements whereby it provides distributors with protection against price reductions initiated by the Company after product is sold by the Company to the distributor and prior to resale by the distributor.
These procedures require the exercise of significant judgments.
The Company believes that it has a reasonable basis to estimate future credits under the programs.
The Company pays commissions to external sales representatives on a per-sale basis.
The Company applies the practical expedient available within ASU 2014-09 to all commissions paid as the future amortization period of the asset that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less.
Accordingly, these commissions are expensed as incurred.
Internal staff are not paid commissions.
The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the product even if the shipping and handling activities are performed after the customer obtains control.
The Company does not evaluate whether shipping and handling activities are promised services to its customers.
If control transfers and revenue is recognized for the related products before the shipping and handling activities occur, the related costs of those shipping and handling activities is accrued.
The Company applies this accounting policy election consistently to similar types of transactions.
See disaggregated revenue information in Note 10.
The remaining fluctuation in the goodwill account balance is due to foreign currency translation.
Historically, the Company's primary cost reduction technique was through the transfer of production from high-labor-cost countries to lower-labor-cost countries.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company's restructuring programs were substantially completed.
This transfer of production was substantially completed by the end of the first fiscal quarter of 2016.
As a result of a review of the financial results and outlook for the Company's MOSFETs segment following the completion of production transfers, the Company determined to implement further cost reductions for the MOSFETs segment.
In November 2016, the Company announced an extension of the MOSFETs Enhanced Competitiveness Program.
The revised program included various cost reduction initiatives, primarily the transfer of all remaining manufacturing operations at its Santa Clara, California facility to other Vishay facilities or third-party subcontractors.
Severance benefits are generally paid in a lump sum at cessation of employment.
Severance benefits are generally paid in a lump sum at cessation of employment, though some are being paid in installments.
As permitted by SAB No.
The Company may record further adjustments to refine those estimates during the measurement period, as additional analysis is completed.
As a result of additional analysis completed in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, the Company adjusted the amount of foreign unremitted earnings available from Israel, Germany, Austria, and France to approximately $1,200,000, and accrued additional provisional tax expense of $12,000.
Substantially all of these amounts were used to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility (see Note 6) and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness.
The Company expects to repatriate these remaining amounts at a measured pace over several years, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts.
The Company's effective tax rate for the period ended June 30, 2018 was negatively impacted by certain provisions of the TCJA.
The provisions of the TCJA are interrelated and the impact of any specific provision cannot be isolated.
The Company's repurchase of a portion of the outstanding convertible debentures (see Note 6) reduced the Company's expected full year 2018 tax rate, which in turn reduced the income tax expense recorded in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
In June 2018, the Company issued $600,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2025 to qualified institutional investors.
The Company used the net proceeds from this offering to repurchase $220,000 and $69,060 principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042, respectively, as further described below.
GAAP requires an issuer to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs are recognized in subsequent periods.
The resulting discount on the debt is amortized as non-cash interest expense in future periods.
Interest is payable on the convertible notes due 2025 semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning December 15, 2018, at a rate of 2.25% per annum; however, the remaining debt discount is being amortized as additional non-cash interest expense using an effective annual interest rate of 5.5% based on the Company's estimated nonconvertible debt borrowing rate.
The convertible notes due 2025 will mature on June 15, 2025, unless earlier repurchased or converted.
Prior to December 15, 2024, such conversion is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions set forth below.
The convertible notes due 2025 are not redeemable by the Company before the maturity date.
The convertible notes due 2025 are initially convertible into cash, shares of Vishay common stock, or a combination thereof, at the Company's option, at a conversion rate of 31.7536 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes.
The conversion rate of the convertible notes is not adjusted for quarterly cash dividends equal to or less than $0.085 per share of common stock.
This represents an initial effective conversion price of approximately $31.49 per share.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, Vishay intends, upon conversion, to repay the principal amount of the notes in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares.
Vishay must provide additional shares upon conversion if there is a "fundamental change" in the business as defined in the indenture governing the notes.
Vishay currently has three issuances of convertible senior debentures outstanding with generally congruent terms.
The Company used substantially all of the net proceeds of the June 2018 issuance of convertible senior notes due 2025 to repurchase $220,000 and $69,060 principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively.
In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for convertible debentures, the aggregate repurchase payment of $584,991 was allocated between the liability ($133,647) and equity (including temporary equity, $451,344) components of the convertible debentures, using the Company's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of the repurchase.
As a result, the Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of convertible debentures of $17,309, including the write-off of a portion of unamortized debt issuance costs.
The quarterly cash dividend program of the Company results in adjustments to the conversion rate and effective conversion price for each issuance of the Company's convertible senior debentures effective as of the ex-dividend date of each cash dividend.
The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the June 30, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of Vishay's common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the June 30, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of Vishay's common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon future conversion of any of the convertible senior debentures, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The excess of the amount that the Company would pay to the holders of the debentures due 2040 and due 2042 upon conversion over the carrying value of the liability component of the debentures currently convertible has been reclassified as temporary equity on the consolidated condensed financial statements.
The Company intends to finance the principal amount of any converted debentures using borrowings under its credit facility.
Accordingly, the debt component of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 continues to be classified as a non-current liability on the consolidated condensed balance sheets.
GAAP requires an issuer to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs are recognized in subsequent periods.
The resulting discount on the debt is amortized as non-cash interest expense in future periods.
Interest is payable on the debentures semi-annually at the cash coupon rate; however, the remaining debt discount is being amortized as additional non-cash interest expense using an effective annual interest rate equal to the Company's estimated nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of issuance.
The Company recognized a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings (accumulated deficit) of $1,801 for the cumulative change in fair value of available-for-sale equity investments previously recognized in other comprehensive income due to the adoption of ASU 2016-01.
Reclassifications of pension and other post-retirement actuarial items out of AOCI are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost.
The Company maintains various retirement benefit plans.
The amount of compensation cost related to stock-based payment transactions is measured based on the grant-date fair value of the equity instruments issued.
The Company determines compensation cost for restricted stock units ("RSUs") and phantom stock units based on the grant-date fair value of the underlying common stock adjusted for expected dividends paid over the required vesting period for non-participating awards.
The Company recognizes compensation cost for RSUs that are expected to vest and records cumulative adjustments in the period that the expectation changes.
The Company currently expects all performance-based RSUs to vest and all of the associated unrecognized compensation cost for performance-based RSUs presented in the table above to be recognized.
The Company's 2007 Stock Incentive Program (the "2007 Program"), as amended and restated, permits the grant of up to 6,500,000 shares of restricted stock, unrestricted stock, RSUs, stock options, and phantom stock units, to officers, employees, and non-employee directors of the Company.
Phantom stock units participate in dividend distribution on the same basis as the Company's common stock and Class B common stock.
Dividend equivalents are issued in the form of additional units of phantom stock.
The phantom stock units are fully vested at all times.
Vishay's reporting segments generate substantially all of their revenue from product sales to the industrial, automotive, telecommunications, computing, consumer products, power supplies, military and aerospace, and medical end markets.
A small portion of revenues is from royalties.
The Company evaluates business segment performance on operating income, exclusive of certain items ("segment operating income").
Management believes that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the Company.
These items represent reconciling items between segment operating income and consolidated operating income.
Business segment assets are the owned or allocated assets used by each business.
The Company considers segment operating income to be the more important metric because it more fully captures the business operations of the segments.
The Company's convertible debt instruments are only convertible for specified periods upon the occurrence of certain events.
The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the June 30, 2018 evaluation.
The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the June 30, 2018 evaluation.
In periods that the debentures are not convertible, the certain conditions which could trigger conversion of the remaining debentures have been deemed to be non-substantive, and accordingly, the Company assumes the conversion of these instruments in its diluted earnings per share computation during periods in which they are dilutive.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, and the convertible senior notes, due 2025, in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
Under the "treasury stock method," Vishay calculates the number of shares issuable under the terms of the debentures based on the average market price of Vishay common stock during the period, and that number is included in the total diluted shares figure for the period.
If the average market price is less than $12.86, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2040, if the average market price is less than $17.63, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2041, if the average market price is less than $10.94, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2042, and if the average market price is less than $31.49, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior notes due 2025.
An asset or liability's classification within the hierarchy is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
There have been no changes in the classification of any financial instruments within the fair value hierarchy in the periods presented.
The nonrecurring fair value measurement is considered a Level 3 measurement.
The Company maintains non-qualified trusts, referred to as "rabbi" trusts, to fund payments under deferred compensation and non-qualified pension plans.
Rabbi trust assets consist primarily of marketable securities, classified as available-for-sale and company-owned life insurance assets.
The marketable securities held in the rabbi trusts are valued using quoted market prices on the last business day of the period.
The investments are valued based on quoted market prices on the last business day of the period.
The convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, issued by the Company on November 9, 2010, May 13, 2011, and May 31, 2012, respectively, contain embedded derivative features that GAAP requires to be bifurcated and remeasured each reporting period.
Each quarter, the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative features, if any, is recorded in the consolidated condensed statements of operations.
The Company uses a derivative valuation model to derive the value of the embedded derivative features.
The first three aforementioned inputs are based on observable market data and are considered Level 2 inputs while the last two aforementioned inputs are unobservable and thus require management's judgment and are considered Level 3 inputs.
The Company has entered into forward contracts with highly-rated financial institutions to mitigate the foreign currency risk associated with intercompany loans denominated in a currency other than the legal entity's functional currency.
The notional amount of the forward contracts was $100,000 as of December 31, 2017.
There were no such contracts outstanding as of June 30, 2018.
The forward contracts were short-term in nature and were renewed at the Company's discretion until the intercompany loans were repaid.
The Company estimated the fair value of the forward contracts based on applicable and commonly used pricing models using current market information and is considered a Level 2 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of the long-term debt, excluding the derivative liabilities and deferred financing costs, at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 is approximately $1,164,200 and $1,071,200, respectively, compared to its carrying value, excluding the derivative liabilities and deferred financing costs, of $697,945 and $379,033, respectively.
The Company estimates the fair value of its long-term debt using a combination of quoted market prices for similar financing arrangements and expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates, which are considered Level 2 inputs.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company's short-term investments were comprised of time deposits with financial institutions that have maturities that exceed 90 days from the date of acquisition; however they all mature within one year from the respective balance sheet dates.
The Company's short-term investments are accounted for as held-to-maturity debt instruments, at amortized cost, which approximates their fair value.
The investments are funded with excess cash not expected to be needed for operations prior to maturity; therefore, the Company believes it has the intent and ability to hold the short-term investments until maturity.
At each reporting date, the Company performs an evaluation to determine if any unrealized losses are other-than-temporary.
No other-than-temporary impairments have been recognized on these securities, and there are no unrecognized holding gains or losses for these securities during the periods presented.
There have been no transfers to or from the held-to-maturity classification.
All decreases in the account balance are due to returns of principal at the securities' maturity dates.
Interest on the securities is recognized as interest income when earned.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company's cash and cash equivalents were comprised of demand deposits, time deposits with maturities of three months or less when purchased, and money market funds.
Based on the current interest rates for similar investments with comparable credit risk and time to maturity, the fair value of the Company's cash, cash equivalents, and held-to-maturity short-term investments approximate the carrying amounts reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets.
The Company's financial instruments also include accounts receivable, short-term notes payable, and accounts payable.
The carrying amounts for these financial instruments reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets approximate their fair values.
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018 and Item 1 of Part II of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 8, 2018 describe certain of our legal proceedings.
There have been no material developments to the legal proceedings previously disclosed.
 Item 1A.
The liquidity of any trading market that currently exists for our convertible senior debentures may be adversely affected by the repurchase of $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, during the second fiscal quarter of 2018, and the holders of the remaining convertible debentures may be more likely to present their convertible debentures for conversion.
Following the repurchase of convertible debentures by us in June 2018, 20% and approximately 54% of the original principal amount of the original issuances of convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, remain outstanding.
Both the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 are currently convertible at the option of the holders.
At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, and the convertible senior notes, due 2025 in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The recorded and principal amount of our outstanding debt increased from approximately $370.5 million and $725.0 million, respectively as of December 31, 2017 to approximately $679.6 million and $981.9 million, respectively, as of June 30, 2018, primarily due to the issuance of the convertible senior notes due 2025.
The carrying value of our convertible debt will continue to increase as the discount associated with the convertible instruments are amortized.
Prior to three months before the respective maturity dates of our convertible senior debentures due 2040, 2041, and 2042, the holders of the debentures may only convert the debentures under specific circumstances as defined in the indentures governing the debentures.
Prior to six months before the maturity date of our convertible senior notes due 2025, the holders of the notes may only convert the notes under specific circumstances as defined in the indentures governing the notes.
As of June 30, 2018, our convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042 are convertible (See Note 6 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1).
Regardless of current convertibility of the debentures, GAAP requires convertible debentures to be included in the calculation of diluted EPS using either the "If Converted" or the "Treasury Stock Method" depending on our intent and ability to settle the debentures upon repurchase or conversion.
The application of the "If Converted" method generally results in significantly more potentially dilutive securities compared to the "Treasury Stock Method."
Pursuant to the indentures governing the respective debentures and notes, we have the right to pay the conversion value or purchase price for the debentures in cash, Vishay common stock, or a combination of both.
Further changes in U.S. trade policy could trigger additional retaliatory actions by affected countries.
