fls.txt



item1.txt
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows included restricted cash of $17 million and $10 million, respectively.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
When control of the promised products and services is transferred to our customers, we recognize revenue in the amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for these products and services.
For these products, we recognize revenues on the later of the street date and the date the product is sold to our customer.
Revenues from product sales are recognized after deducting the estimated allowance for returns and price protection, which are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize.
Returns and price protection are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available.


item2.txt
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The Company’s financial results for 2018 are presented in accordance with a new revenue accounting standard that was adopted in the first quarter of 2018.
Further information about our adoption of the new standard is provided in Notes 2 and 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
· consolidated net revenues decreased 7% to $1.51 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 3% to $265 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.62 billion and consolidated operating income of $257 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $1.28 billion, or 84% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $1.35 billion, or 84% of consolidated net revenues, for the three months ended September 30, 2017; · consolidated net income increased 38% to $260 million, as compared to $188 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017; net income for the 2018 period included $72 million of net tax benefits from discrete tax items primarily related to updates to our accounting for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“U.S.
· consolidated net revenues increased 3% to $5.12 billion, and consolidated operating income increased 19% to $1.29 billion, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $4.97 billion and consolidated operating income of $1.09 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $4.00 billion, or 78% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $4.05 billion, or 81% of consolidated net revenues, for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; · operating margin was 25.3%, as compared to 21.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; · diluted earnings per common share increased 35% to $1.51, as compared to $1.12 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
· lower net bookings from Crash Bandicoot™ N. Sane Trilogy, which was released in June 2017 on the PlayStation 4 platform, and in June 2018 on the Xbox One, PC, and Nintendo Switch platforms.
YTD Q3 2018 vs. YTD Q3 2017 · lower net bookings due to fewer content releases in 2018 from our Diablo and Bubble Witch franchises as compared to 2017.
We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period.


item3.txt
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts.


item4.txt



part2.txt



