fls.txt
Management is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.
The forward-looking information may include, among other information, statements concerning our outlook for fiscal year 2020, overall volume and pricing trends, cost reduction and acquisition strategies and their anticipated results, and expectations for research and development and capital expenditures.
Our expectations and assumptions are expressed in good faith and we believe there is a reasonable basis for them.
This new standard replaces the use of forward-looking information to estimate credit losses and requires credit losses for available for sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than a reduction in the amortized cost basis.


item1.txt
The increase in Ceramic Components is primarily due to higher demand and a more favorable pricing environment during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same quarter last year.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of held-to-maturity investments at  June 30, 2019, by contractual maturity, are shown below.
Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established.
We have assessed the condition of our financial resources and our current business and believe that, based on our financial condition as of June 30, 2019, cash on hand and cash expected to be generated from operating activities and investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated financing needs for working capital, capital expenditures, environmental clean-up costs, expenses related to ongoing litigation, pension plan funding, research, development, and engineering expenses, and dividend payments or stock repurchases to be made during the next twelve months.
In  August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, “Compensation – Retirement Benefits – Defined Benefit Plans – General.” This standard removes certain disclosures that are not considered cost beneficial, clarifies certain required disclosures and added additional disclosures.
This decrease was a result of the factors described above.
As of the end of the period covered in this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act.
Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary.
The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction over the balance of the environmental remediation at the Site.
Applications under such programs for the three month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were approximately $5.1 million and $6.2 million, respectively.
Customers remained cautious with higher than normal inventory levels in the sales channel, particularly at our distribution customers, contributing to lower overall demand, primarily in the automotive, cellular, and consumer markets.
Certain manufacturing and operating costs denominated in local currencies are incurred in Europe, Asia, Mexico, and Central and South America.
Please see Note 11 for additional information related to the amortization of prior service cost and the recognized actuarial losses, which amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the statement of operations during the three month periods ended  June 30, 2018 and 2019.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income for the three month period ended June 30, 2019 was $54.7 million compared to net income of $56.0 million for the same three month period last year.
The following describes valuation techniques used to appropriately value our assets held in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan and derivatives.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
At  March 31, 2019 and  June 30, 2019, we had the following forward contracts that were entered into to hedge against these exposures.
To resolve our liability at the sites at which we have been named a PRP, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees with federal and state regulatory agencies governing the timing and nature of investigation and remediation.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial statements.
We have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity.
The cases in the United States were consolidated into the Northern District of California on  October 2, 2014.
The decrease in the effective tax rate is due to a discrete tax benefits occurring during the quarter.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities less than 4 months, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales denominated in various currencies.
The impact of the reclassifications made to prior year amounts is not material and did not affect net loss.
Prior year financial statements were not recast under the new standard and, therefore, those amounts are not presented below.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.


