Kyocera notified AVX pursuant to the Products Supply and Distribution Agreement in December 2016 of its intent, effective January 1, 2018, to market its manufactured passive component and interconnect products globally using Kyocera’s sales force rather than continuing to have AVX resell such products in the Americas, Europe and Asia.
Comprehensive income (loss) represents changes in equity during a period except those resulting from investments by and distributions to shareholders.
Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations and are inherently uncertain.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Certain manufacturing and operating costs denominated in local currencies are incurred in Europe, Asia, Mexico, and Central and South America.
The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction over the balance of the environmental remediation at the Site.
This estimated one-time tax was recorded in the results for the quarter ended December 31, 2017, and was approximately $75.6 million, which is payable in installments over an eight-year period beginning in 2018.
The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
The dividend will be paid to stockholders of record on  February 23, 2018 and will be disbursed on  March 5, 2018.
Instead, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
This case alleged that certain ATC products infringe on a Presidio patent.
On  April 25, 2013, AVX was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Greatbatch, Inc. v. AVX Corporation.
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
AVX has submitted its proposed remedy, but until the state has approved such proposal, AVX cannot determine if additional groundwater and soil remediation will be required, if substantial material will have to be disposed of offsite, or if additional remediation techniques will be required, any of which could result in a more extensive and costly plan of remediation.
The delivery contracts represent routine purchase orders for delivery within three months and payment is due upon receipt.
The adoption of this standard has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.