fls.txt
Forward-looking statements should be read in context with, and with the understanding of, the various other disclosures concerning the Company and its business made elsewhere in this quarterly report as well as other public reports filed by the Company with the SEC.


item1.txt
Cash, accounts receivable, investments in securities, and certain other assets, which are centrally managed, are not readily allocable to operating segments.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
During calendar year 2014, AVX was named as a co-defendant in a series of cases filed in the United States and in the Canadian provinces of Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Manitoba alleging violations of United States, state and Canadian antitrust laws and asserting that AVX and numerous other companies were participants in alleged price-fixing in the capacitor market.
At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, we classified investments in debt securities and time deposits as held-to-maturity securities.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Charges related to allowances for doubtful accounts are charged to selling, general and administrative expenses.
Using the “portfolio approach,” we believe we have an adequate basis to assess the reasonableness and reliability of our estimates for each program.
To resolve our liability at the sites at which we have been named a PRP, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees with federal and state regulatory agencies governing the timing and nature of investigation and remediation.
We recorded approximately $64,800 of identifiable intangible assets and $75,625 of goodwill.
Based on current actuarial computations, during the three months ended June 30, 2018, we made contributions of $1,750 to the international plans.
There are no intersegment revenues.
The classification criteria maintains the distinction between finance leases and operating leases.
These reserves are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as $3,329 and $3,461 in accrued expenses at March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively, and $15,289 in other non-current liabilities at both March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018.
We do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained in this quarterly report to reflect new events or circumstances unless and to the extent required by applicable law.
The spot rates and forward points used are an average rate from an actively traded market.
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
There are no intersegment revenues.
Substantially all of the sales in the Americas region were generated in the United States.
Please see Note 12 for additional information related to the amortization of prior service cost and the recognized actuarial losses, which amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the statement of operations during the three month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2018.
The Company adopted this guidance effective April 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method, with no material impact on our results of operations.
All significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future credits under the ship and debit program.
These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities.
The objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with gains and losses on the forward contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting fair values of assets and liabilities.
In order to minimize the effect of movements in currency exchange rates, we periodically enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge external and intercompany foreign currency transactions.
At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $156,238 and $171,725, respectively, denominated primarily in Euros, Czech Korunas, and Japanese Yen.
Please refer to Note 9, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 to this Form 10-Q for a discussion of our involvement in certain environmental and other pending legal proceedings.


