fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
All forward-looking statements contained in this quarterly report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and, to the extent it may be applicable by way of incorporation of statements contained in this quarterly report by reference or otherwise, Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, each of which establishes a safe-harbor from private actions for forward-looking statements as defined in those statutes.
The forward-looking information may include, among other information, statements concerning our outlook for fiscal year 2020, overall volume and pricing trends, cost reduction and acquisition strategies and their anticipated results, and expectations for research and development and capital expenditures.


item1.txt
We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), or equivalent non-U.S., state or local laws, for clean-up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination.
We have assessed the condition of our financial resources and our current business and believe that, based on our financial condition as of September 30, 2019, cash on hand and cash expected to be generated from operating activities and investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated financing needs for working capital, capital expenditures, environmental clean-up costs, expenses related to ongoing litigation, pension plan funding, research, development, and engineering expenses, and dividend payments or stock repurchases to be made during the next twelve months.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2019.
These reserves are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as $5,749 and $4,507 in accrued expenses at  March 31, 2019 and  September 30, 2019, respectively, and $20,622 and $20,822 in other non-current liabilities at  March 31, 2019 and  September 30, 2019, respectively.
In order to minimize the effect of movements in currency exchange rates, we periodically enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge external and intercompany foreign currency transactions.
This case alleged that certain AVX products infringe on one or more of six Greatbatch patents.
Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices product sales decreased $3.5 million to $120.6 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2019 compared to $124.1 million during the same period last year.
There are no intersegment revenues.
Sales were unfavorably impacted by approximately $2.1 million as a result of currency movement due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar as compared to the Japanese Yen and Euro when compared to the same period last year.
This decrease in the effective tax rate is due to discrete tax benefits occurring during the six months ended September 30, 2019.
Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established.
This decrease is primarily attributable to a decrease of automotive manufacturing across all regions in addition to unfavorable currency movement due to the stronger U.S. Dollar compared to the Euro.
Management is currently assessing the impact ASU 2018-14 will have on our disclosures.
In  February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, "Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income."
This decrease in the effective tax rate is due to discrete tax benefits occurring during the six months ended September 30, 2019.
Management is currently assessing the impact ASU 2018-14 will have on our disclosures.
This decrease is primarily attributable to a decrease of automotive manufacturing across all regions in addition to unfavorable currency movement due to the stronger U.S. Dollar compared to the Euro.
Other income, net was $8.1 million for the six month period ended September 30, 2019 compared to $6.0 million for the same six month period last year.
We have assessed the condition of our financial resources and our current business and believe that, based on our financial condition as of September 30, 2019, cash on hand and cash expected to be generated from operating activities and investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated financing needs for working capital, capital expenditures, environmental clean-up costs, expenses related to ongoing litigation, pension plan funding, research, development, and engineering expenses, and dividend payments or stock repurchases to be made during the next twelve months.
Therefore, we must estimate our incremental borrowing rate to discount the lease payments based on information available at lease commencement.
In  February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, "Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income."
The table below represents product group revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2019.
Charges related to allowances for doubtful accounts are charged to selling, general and administrative expenses.
The dividend will be paid to stockholders of record on  November 8, 2019 and will be disbursed on November 22, 2019.
During the six month period ended  September 30, 2019, goodwill increased by $10,896 due to the purchase of Chengdu OK New Energy ("COKNE") and was partially offset by foreign currency translation.
In  June 2018, the District Court set the amount of royalties and re-issued the injunction.


