fls.txt
Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations and are inherently uncertain.
Any forward-looking statements by the Company are intended to speak only as of the date thereof.


item1.txt
These hedging instruments are used to offset foreign currency changes in the fair values of the underlying assets and liabilities.
As of September 30, 2018, we had a current ratio of 5.5 to 1, $844.7 million of cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities, $2.3 billion of stockholders’ equity, and no borrowings.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The funds in the non-qualified deferred compensation program are valued based on the number of shares in the funds using a price per share traded in an active market.
There are no intersegment revenues.
The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The dividend will be paid to stockholders of record on November 2, 2018 and will be disbursed on November 16, 2018.
Historically, our operating funding is internally generated through operations, investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities and cash on hand.
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
Ship and debit authorizations may cover current and future distributor activity for a specific part for sale to their customer.
The Ethertronics business is now named “AVX Antenna” and is consolidated with our Electronic Components segment.
The table below represents the basic and diluted earnings per share and sets forth the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding and potential common stock equivalents for the three and six month periods ending September 30, 2017 and 2018.
New environmental regulations may be enacted and we cannot determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with such regulations.
This increase was a result of the factors described above.
Regarding operating leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term on a generally straight-line basis, and 3) classify all cash payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns under the stock rotation program.
As a result of the Act we will have greater flexibility to redirect our global cash resources where they are needed.
On December 22, 2017, the Act was enacted in the U.S.
In order to minimize the effect of movements in currency exchange rates, we periodically enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge external and intercompany foreign currency transactions.
Gross profit as a percentage of sales for the three month period ended September 30, 2018 was 27.7% compared to 21.9% for the three month period ended September 30, 2017.
Ship-from-Stock and Debit (“ship and debit”) is a program designed to assist distributor customers in meeting competitive prices in the marketplace on sales to their end customers.
This slight decrease was primarily due to higher foreign exchange losses resulting from currency fluctuations.
These derivative instruments are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns.
The spot rates and forward points used are an average rate from an actively traded market.
All forward-looking statements contained in this quarterly report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, to the extent it may be applicable by way of incorporation of statements contained in this quarterly report by reference or otherwise, Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, each of which establishes a safe-harbor from private actions for forward-looking statements as defined in those statutes.


