fls.txt



item1.txt
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The results for the three-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
We have a variety of types of contracts with our customers and distributors.
In determining whether a contract exists, we evaluate the terms of the agreement, the relationship with the customer or distributor and their ability to pay.
Control is considered transferred when title and risk of loss pass, when the customer becomes obligated to pay and, where required, when the customer has accepted the products.
The length of time between invoicing and payment is not significant under any of our payment terms.
We monitor collectability of accounts receivable primarily through review of accounts receivable aging.
We recognize shipping fees, if any, received from customers in revenue.
We include shipping and handling costs in COR.
Unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to receive dividends or dividend equivalents, such as our restricted stock units (RSUs), are considered to be participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating EPS.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 5 million and 6 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share for these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.


item2.txt
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
300-millimeter wafers will support the majority of our Analog growth going forward.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
Broadest reach of market channels.
Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors.
Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
Together, the attributes above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.


