fls.txt
The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.


item1.txt
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to RSUs and excluded from the calculation of income allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value.
The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments.
The reported results for 2019 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior periods are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 840, Leases.
The adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of $229 million of lease liabilities with corresponding lease assets as of January 1, 2019.
This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets.
Using this methodology will result in earlier recognition of losses than under the current incurred loss approach, which requires waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of having been incurred.


item2.txt
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
To strengthen this advantage, we are planning our next phase of 300-millimeter capacity expansion as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
Broadest reach of market channels.
Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors’ websites.
Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
Together, the attributes above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars.
In our core businesses, Analog revenue declined 2% and Embedded Processing declined 14% from the same quarter a year ago.
We have returned $8.0 billion to owners in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends.
Our strategy is to return all our free cash flow to shareholders.


item4.txt



part2.txt
On September 20, 2018, our board of directors authorized the purchase of an additional $12.0 billion of our common stock.
In addition to open-market purchases, 403,016 shares of common stock were surrendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units.


