fls.txt



item1.txt
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
The results for the three- and nine-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
Control is considered transferred when title and risk of loss pass, when the customer becomes obligated to pay and, where required, when the customer has accepted the products.
Until the products are pulled for use or sale by the customer or distributor, we retain control over the products’ disposition, including the right to pull back or relocate the products.
These allowances, which are not material, generally include adjustments for pricing arrangements, product returns and incentives.
The length of time between invoicing and payment is not significant under any of our payment terms.
We monitor collectability of accounts receivable primarily through review of accounts receivable aging.
We recognize shipping fees, if any, received from customers in revenue.
Unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to receive dividends or dividend equivalents, such as our restricted stock units (RSUs), are considered to be participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating EPS.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
We adopted Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 (ASC 606) as of January 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective transition method applied only to contracts that were not completed as of the adoption date.
The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 605, Revenue Recognition.


item2.txt
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
300-millimeter wafers will support the majority of our Analog growth going forward.
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
Broadest reach of market channels.
Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors.
Together, the attributes above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders.
Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash, and return that cash to shareholders.
All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
Our third-quarter revenue was $4.26 billion, net income was $1.57 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.58.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.


