fls.txt



item1.txt
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments.
Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We use the two-class method for calculating EPS because the restricted stock units (RSUs) we grant are participating securities containing non-forfeitable rights to receive dividend equivalents.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 7 million and 5 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the second quarters of 2019 and 2018, and 9 million and 5 million shares outstanding during the first six months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value.
The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments.


item2.txt
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
To strengthen this advantage, we are planning our next phase of 300-millimeter capacity expansion as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth.
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
Broadest reach of market channels.
Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors’ websites.
Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
Together, the attributes above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders.
Some of our products generate revenue for decades, which strengthens the return on our investments.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars.
Our second quarter revenue was $3.67 billion, net income was $1.31 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.36.
In our core businesses, Analog revenue declined 6% and Embedded Processing declined 16% from the same quarter a year ago.
Our cash flow from operations of $7.2 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.
Our strategy is to return all our free cash flow to shareholders.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter.
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $6.0 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 21, 2017.


