fls.txt



item1.txt
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
The results for the three- and six-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
Control is considered transferred when title and risk of loss pass, when the customer becomes obligated to pay and, where required, when the customer has accepted the products.
Until the products are pulled for use or sale by the customer or distributor, we retain control over the products’ disposition, including the right to pull back or relocate the products.
The length of time between invoicing and payment is not significant under any of our payment terms.
We monitor collectability of accounts receivable primarily through review of accounts receivable aging.
We recognize shipping fees, if any, received from customers in revenue.
We include shipping and handling costs in COR.
The majority of our customers pay these fees directly to third parties.
Under the two-class method, a portion of Net income is allocated to these participating securities and, therefore, is excluded from the calculation of EPS allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The carrying value of our long-term debt approximates the fair value as measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs.


item2.txt
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
300-millimeter wafers will support the majority of our Analog growth going forward.
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
Broadest reach of market channels.
Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors.
Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
Together, the attributes above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders.
Some of our products generate revenue for decades, which strengthens the return on our investments.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.


