fls.txt



item1.txt
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments.
We use the two-class method for calculating EPS because the restricted stock units (RSUs) we grant are participating securities containing non-forfeitable rights to receive dividend equivalents.
Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to RSUs and excluded from the calculation of income allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments.


item2.txt
•A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
To strengthen this advantage, we are planning our next phase of 300-millimeter capacity expansion as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth.
•Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
•Broadest reach of market channels.
Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors’ websites.
•Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
Together, the attributes above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash and return that cash to shareholders.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
•All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars.
In our core businesses, Analog revenue declined 8% and Embedded Processing declined 19% from the same quarter a year ago.
We have returned $7.4 billion to shareholders in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter.
3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, dated April 18, 1985, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) of the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014).
3(b)By-Laws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 12, 2016).


