fls.txt
Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Forward-Looking Statements") with respect to the business of the Company.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented have been made.
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company's significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards.
In connection with the modified retrospective application of the new revenue standards, we recorded an adjustment to increase retained earnings of $3.4 million upon the January 1, 2018 adoption date.
Apart from this adjustment and the inclusion of additional required disclosures in Note 2, the adoption of the new revenue standards did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for these goods and services.
The Company also provides incremental services to our customers in the form of training, technical support, special tooling, and other support as deemed necessary from time to time.
For purposes of ASC 606, all such incremental services were concluded to be immaterial in the context of the contracts.
In general, the Company is not contractually obligated to accept returns except for defective product or in instances where the product does not meet the Company's product specifications.
Payment for products sold under consignment contracts is typically due within 60 days of the customer pulling the product from the hub.
However, the "ship and debit" arrangements with distributors, royalty income associated with our licensing agreements, and the product returns described above are each deemed to be variable consideration which requires the Company to make constrained estimates based on historical data.
In the case of our consignment arrangements, we are unable to invoice the customer until product is pulled from the hub by the customer, which generates an unbilled receivable (a contract asset) when revenue is initially recognized.
The change in balance of our unbilled receivables from January 1, 2018 to June 30, 2018 primarily relates to a timing difference between the Company's performance (i.e. when our product is shipped to a customer-controlled hub) and the point at which the Company can invoice the customer per the terms of the customer contract (i.e. when the customer pulls our product from the customer-controlled hub).
The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations that have not been satisfied as of June 30, 2018 related to contracts that exceed one year in duration amounted to $18.3 million, with expected contract expiration dates that range from 2019 - 2024.
The majority of the Company's total backlog of orders at June 30, 2018 is related to contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less, for which the Company is electing to utilize the practical expedient available within the guidance, and are excluded from the transaction price related to these future obligations.


item2.txt
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
·   Revenues – The Company's revenues increased by $13.7 million (or 5.6%) in the first half of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, despite a $3.7 million decline in sales related to the NPS divestiture.
As a result, the Company's material costs as a percentage of sales increased to 41.4% during the first half of 2018 from 40.4% during the first half of 2017.
·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first half of 2018 increased from 10.2% of sales during the first half of 2017 to 11.4% of sales during the first half of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products.
·   Impact of Foreign Currency – During the first half of 2018, the Company incurred foreign exchange transactional gains of $0.9 million and higher labor and overhead costs of $3.2 million related to unfavorable fluctuations in exchange rates versus the first half of 2017.
The Company was unfavorably impacted by transactional foreign exchange losses during the first half of 2018 due to the appreciation of the Euro, Pound, and Renminbi against the U.S. dollar as compared to exchange rates in effect during the first half of 2017.
As a result, the U.S. Dollar equivalent costs of these operations were $3.2 million higher in the first half of 2018.
While we are optimistic as to the business opportunities we see ahead, we continue to see challenges in labor and material costs, and limited component availability within certain areas of the supply chain.
The growth in North America sales in 2018 was largely due to increased demand for our passive connector products in structured cabling applications, strength in our connectivity products within key military programs, and higher sales of our transformer products into medical applications.
The decrease in Asia sales noted above for the second quarter primarily relates to reduced demand for custom module products, which was offset in part by higher sales of our integrated connector modules during the second quarter of 2018.
Sales in Europe increased in both 2018 periods presented as a result of higher demand for our Stewart and Cinch connector products in that region, coupled with strong sales of our power products into rail applications.


item3.txt
In comparing average exchange rates during the second quarter of 2018 versus those during the second quarter of 2017, the Euro appreciated by 8%, the Pound appreciated by 6%, and the Renminbi appreciated by 7% against the U.S. Dollar.


part2.txt
The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 12 of the Company's Financial Statements, under "Legal Proceedings", as set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


