fls.txt
Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Forward-Looking Statements") with respect to the business of the Company.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented have been made.
The results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year.
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company's significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards.
We adopted the guidance under the new revenue standards effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach by recognizing the cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard as an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings.
In connection with the modified retrospective application of the new revenue standards, we recorded an adjustment to increase retained earnings of $3.4 million upon the January 1, 2018 adoption date.
Apart from this adjustment and the inclusion of additional required disclosures in Note 2, the adoption of the new revenue standards did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for these goods and services.
The Company also provides incremental services to our customers in the form of training, technical support, special tooling, and other support as deemed necessary from time to time.
For purposes of ASC 606, all such incremental services were concluded to be immaterial in the context of the contracts.
In general, the Company is not contractually obligated to accept returns except for defective product or in instances where the product does not meet the Company's product specifications.
Payment for products sold under consignment contracts is typically due within 60 days of the customer pulling the product from the hub.
However, the "ship and debit" arrangements with distributors, royalty income associated with our licensing agreements, and the product returns described above are each deemed to be variable consideration which requires the Company to make constrained estimates based on historical data.
In the case of our consignment arrangements, we are unable to invoice the customer until product is pulled from the hub by the customer, which generates an unbilled receivable (a contract asset) when revenue is initially recognized.
The change in balance of our unbilled receivables from January 1, 2018 to September 30, 2018 primarily relates to a timing difference between the Company's performance (i.e. when our product is shipped to a customer-controlled hub) and the point at which the Company can invoice the customer per the terms of the customer contract (i.e. when the customer pulls our product from the customer-controlled hub).


item2.txt
·   Revenues – The Company's revenues increased by $33.8 million, or 9.1%, in the first nine months of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, despite a $5.1 million decline in sales related to the NPS divestiture.
As a result, the Company's material costs as a percentage of sales increased to 42.0% during the first nine months of 2018 from 39.7% during the first nine months of 2017.
·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first nine months of 2018 increased from 10.4% of sales during the first nine months of 2017 to 11.5% of sales during the first nine months of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar, particularly during the first half of 2018, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products.
·   Impact of Foreign Currency – During the first nine months of 2018, the Company incurred foreign exchange transactional gains of $2.4 million and higher labor and overhead costs of $2.5 million related to unfavorable fluctuation in exchange rates versus the first nine months of 2017.
The Company was unfavorably impacted by transactional foreign exchange losses during the first nine months of 2018 due to the appreciation of the Euro, Pound, and Renminbi against the U.S. dollar as compared to exchange rates in effect during the first nine months of 2017.
As a result, the U.S. Dollar equivalent costs of these operations were $2.5 million higher in the first nine months of 2018.
The growth in North America sales in 2018 was largely due to increased demand for our passive connector products from our premise wiring customers, strength in our connectivity products within key military programs, and higher sales of our transformer products into medical applications.
The increases in Asia sales noted above for the 2018 periods primarily relate to higher sales of our integrated connector modules for next-generation switching platforms.
Sales in Europe increased in both 2018 periods presented as a result of higher demand for our Stewart and Cinch connector products in that region, coupled with strong sales of our power products into rail applications.
There was also a favorable impact on our European sales in general during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018 as a portion of those sales are invoiced in Euros or Pounds, which had appreciated against the U.S. Dollar particularly during the first half of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017.
The improvement in income from operations within our North America segment was largely due to higher sales volumes in the 2018 periods, partially offset by increased material costs on purchased components.


item3.txt
During the first nine months of 2018, the U.S. Dollar was in a weakened position (compared to the first nine months of 2017) against most other currencies in which the Company pays its expenses.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the Bel Fuse Inc. Employees' Savings Plan (the "Employees' Savings Plan"), the Company makes matching contributions of pre-tax elective deferral contributions made by associates.


