fls.txt
Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Forward-Looking Statements") with respect to the business of the Company.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented have been made.
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company's significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards.
In connection with the modified retrospective application of the new revenue standards, we recorded an adjustment to increase retained earnings of $3.4 million upon the January 1, 2018 adoption date.
Apart from this adjustment and the inclusion of additional required disclosures in Note 2, the adoption of the new revenue standards did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a "right-of-use" model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for these goods and services.
The Company also provides incremental services to our customers in the form of training, technical support, special tooling, and other support as deemed necessary from time to time.
For purposes of ASC 606, all such incremental services were concluded to be immaterial in the context of the contracts.
Warranties generally extend for one to three years from the date of sale, providing customers with assurance that the related product will function as intended.
In general, the Company is not contractually obligated to accept returns except for defective product or in instances where the product does not meet the Company's product specifications.
Distribution customers often receive what is referred to as "ship and debit" arrangements, whereby Bel will invoice them at an agreed upon unit price upon shipment of product and a price reduction may be granted if the market price of the product declines after shipment.
Payment for products sold under consignment contracts is typically due within 60 days of the customer pulling the product from the hub.
However, the "ship and debit" arrangements with distributors, royalty income associated with our licensing agreements, and the product returns described above are each deemed to be variable consideration which requires the Company to make constrained estimates based on historical data.
In the case of our consignment arrangements, we are unable to invoice the customer until product is pulled from the hub by the customer, which generates an unbilled receivable (a contract asset) when revenue is initially recognized.


item2.txt
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
·   Revenues – The Company's revenues increased by $4.6 million (or 4.0%) in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, despite a $1.6 million decline in sales related to the NPS divestiture.
The majority of the sales growth in the first quarter related to strong demand for our Magnetic Solutions products, particularly our integrated connector modules within industrial, Ethernet and server markets.
Sales of our Connectivity Solutions products were also higher in the first quarter of 2018 with an increase in demand related to various military programs and within the industrial market for oil and gas, test and measurement, and broadcasting applications.
Our Power Solutions and Protection backlog grew by 12%, led by higher demand for our power supplies in the industrial and rail industries, and orders from new customers within the E-Mobility, Internet of Things and Blockchain segments.
As a result, the Company's material costs as a percentage of sales increased to 40.8% during the first quarter of 2018 from 40.1% during the first quarter of 2017.
·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first quarter of 2018 increased from 10.2% of sales during the first quarter of 2017 to 11.3% of sales during the first quarter of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi and Peso against the U.S. Dollar, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products.
·   Impact of Foreign Currency – During the first quarter of 2018, the Company incurred foreign exchange translation losses of $1.0 million and an estimated $1.8 million of transactional foreign exchange losses.
Due to the changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, translating our financial results and the revaluation of certain intercompany as well as third-party transactions to and from foreign currencies to U.S. dollars may result in a favorable or unfavorable impact to our consolidated statements of operations and cash flows.
The Company was unfavorably impacted by transactional foreign exchange losses during the first quarter of 2018 due to the appreciation of the Euro, Pound, Renminbi and Peso against the U.S. dollar as compared to exchange rates in effect during the first quarter of 2017.
The Company has significant manufacturing operations located in the PRC and in Mexico where labor and overhead costs are paid in local currencies.


item3.txt



part2.txt
The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 11 of the Company's Financial Statements, under "Legal Proceedings", as set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


