fls.txt
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these Forward-Looking Statements which may be necessary to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Any Forward-Looking Statement made by the Company is based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made.


item1.txt
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted from the following condensed consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations, including the interim reporting requirements, of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The Company’s significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a “right-of-use” model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Similar modifications have been made to lessor accounting in-line with revenue recognition guidance.
The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements.
In connection with the adoption, we elected to utilize the Comparatives Under 840 Option whereby the Company will continue to present prior period financial statements and disclosures under ASC 840.
In addition, we elected the transition package of three practical expedients permitted within the standard, which eliminates the requirements to reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
The standard did not materially affect the Company’s consolidated net earnings or have any impact on cash flows.
The change in balance of our unbilled receivables from December 31, 2018 to June 30, 2019 primarily relates to a timing difference between the Company’s performance (i.e. when our product is shipped to a customer-controlled hub) and the point at which the Company can invoice the customer per the terms of the customer contract (i.e. when the customer pulls our product from the customer-controlled hub).
The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations that have not been satisfied as of June 30, 2019 related to contracts that exceed one year in duration amounted to $14.3 million, with expected contract expiration dates that range from 2020 - 2025.
It is expected that 21% of this aggregate amount will be recognized in 2020, 54% will be recognized in 2021 and the remainder will be recognized in years beyond 2021.
Level 3 – Unobservable inputs about which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions.


item2.txt
When we cross-reference to a “Note,” we are referring to our “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise.
All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits.
These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries.
Bel’s portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead.
Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the People’s Republic of China (PRC).
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
·   Revenues – The Company’s revenues decreased by $6.2 million (or 2.4%) in the first half of 2019 as compared to the same period of 2018.
Since year-end, we saw an 8% increase in the backlog for our Connectivity Solutions products, primarily driven by additional orders from our military customers.


item3.txt
In comparing average exchange rates during the first half of 2019 versus those during the first half of 2018, the Euro depreciated by 7%, the Pound depreciated by 6%, the Peso depreciated by 1% and the Renminbi depreciated by 6% against the U.S. Dollar.


part2.txt
We are also involved in various other legal actions incidental to our business.


