fls.txt
Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Forward-Looking Statements") with respect to the business of the Company.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented have been made.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled when products are transferred to customers.
Upon adoption, the new revenue standards replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a "right-of-use" model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Similar modifications have been made to lessor accounting in-line with revenue recognition guidance.
The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements.
We are currently in the process of evaluating this new standard update.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 605.
Our revenues are substantially derived from sales of our products.
In our power solutions and protection group, we provide intelligent, efficient and reliable AC-DC and DC-DC power conversion devices and circuit protection products.
Applications range from board-mount power to system-level architectures for servers, storage, networking, industrial and transportation.
In our magnetic solutions group, we provide an extensive line of integrated connector modules (ICM), where an Ethernet magnetic solution is integrated into a connector package.
Products within the Company's magnetic solutions group are primarily used in networking and industrial applications.
The Company also provides incremental services to our customers in the form of training, technical support, special tooling, and other support as deemed necessary from time to time.


item2.txt
When we cross-reference to a "Note," we are referring to our "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements," unless the context indicates otherwise.
All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits.
These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries.
Bel's portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the PRC.
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
The majority of the sales growth in the first quarter related to strong demand for our Magnetic Solutions products, particularly our integrated connector modules within industrial, Ethernet and server markets.
·   Backlog – Our backlog reached $178.3 million at March 31, 2018, representing an increase of $31.8 million, or 22%, from December 31, 2017.


item3.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


