fls.txt
Any Forward-Looking Statement made by the Company is based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
The information in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) should be read in conjunction with the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes set forth in Item 1 of Part I of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, our MD&A set forth in Item 7 of Part II of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in Item 8 of Part II of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” below and “Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Information,” above, and the information referenced therein, for a description of risks that we face and important factors that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented have been made.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a “right-of-use” model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Similar modifications have been made to lessor accounting in-line with revenue recognition guidance.
The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements.
In addition, we elected the transition package of three practical expedients permitted within the standard, which eliminates the requirements to reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
See Note 12, Leases, for Topic 842 disclosures in connection with the adoption of ASU 2016-02.
The change in balance of our unbilled receivables from December 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019 primarily relates to a timing difference between the Company’s performance (i.e. when our product is shipped to a customer-controlled hub) and the point at which the Company can invoice the customer per the terms of the customer contract (i.e. when the customer pulls our product from the customer-controlled hub).
It is expected that 47% of this aggregate amount will be recognized in 2020, 48% will be recognized in 2021 and the remainder will be recognized in years beyond 2021.
Level 3 – Unobservable inputs about which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our available-for-sale securities primarily consisted of investments held in a rabbi trust which are intended to fund the Company’s Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”) obligations.
There were no financial assets accounted for at fair value on a nonrecurring basis as of March 31, 2019 or December 31, 2018.
The Company has other financial instruments, such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, accrued expenses and notes payable, which are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis but are recorded at amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or short-term nature.
The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt is estimated using a discounted cash flow method based on interest rates that are currently available for debt issuances with similar terms and maturities.


item2.txt
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars in the text are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits.
These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries.
Bel’s portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead.
Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the PRC.
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
We also saw increased demand for our connectivity products for use in commercial aerospace applications, particularly from our after-market customers.
The backlog of orders for our Power Solutions and Protection products declined by 7% and backlog for our Magnetic Solutions products was down 13% from year-end 2018 levels.
Lead times continue to be extended for mosfets and costs for those components remain elevated.


item3.txt
In comparing average exchange rates during the first quarter of 2019 versus those during the first quarter of 2018, the Euro depreciated by 8%, the Pound depreciated by 7%, the Peso depreciated by 3% and the Renminbi depreciated by 6% against the U.S. Dollar.


part2.txt
We are also involved in various other legal actions incidental to our business.


