The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information, and rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the opinion of management, the interim financial statements include all normal adjustments and disclosures necessary to present fairly the Company’s financial position as of September 30, 2019, the results of its operations for the three month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, and its cash flows for the three month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
A summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company’s fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Significant changes to our accounting policies as a result of adopting ASU-2014-09 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606) in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and adopting ASU 2016-02, “Leases” in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, which are discussed below.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies the performance obligations in its customer contracts or purchase orders.
Control is generally transferred at time of shipment when title and risk of ownership passes to the customer.
For customer contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price and any discounts to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices.
Payment terms are typically within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer.
Installation is a separate performance obligation, except for our digital signage products.
For digital signage products, installation is not a separate performance obligation as the product and installation is the combined item promised in digital signage contracts.
The Company is not always responsible for installation of products it sells and has no post-installation responsibilities other than standard warranties.
Installation revenue is recognized over time as our customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided through the installation process.
The table presents a reconciliation of the disaggregation by reportable segments.
Legacy products include lighting fixtures utilizing light sources other than LED technology and printed two- and three-dimensional graphic products.
Turnkey services and other includes installation services along with shipping and handling charges.
Shipping costs that are not material in context of the delivery of products are expensed as incurred.
Payments are generally due within 30 to 90 days of completion of the performance obligation and invoicing; therefore, payments do not contain significant financing components.
On July 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09.
“Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective adoption method which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
This approach was applied to contracts that were not completed as of June 30, 2018.
Results for reporting periods beginning July 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for the prior period.
The Company recorded a net increase to beginning retained earnings of $591,000 on July 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606, as described below.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” The amended guidance requires an entity to recognize assets and liabilities that arise from leases.
The amended guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, or the Company’s fiscal 2020, with early adoption permitted.
The Company elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the new guidance to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification, and initial direct costs.
In addition, the Company elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease component and the accounting policy election to not present leases with an initial term of twelve months or less on the balance sheet.
The Company’s most significant leases are those relating to its two manufacturing facilities along with a small office space.
Besides these three real estate leases, most other leases are insignificant and consist of leases related to a vehicle, forklifts, small tooling, and various office equipment.
All of the Company’s leases are operating leases and are included in other long-term assets with the corresponding liability in other long-term liabilities.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The adoption of the new lease standard resulted in the recognition of right-of-use assets (ROU assets) of $10.4 million and lease liabilities of 10.8 million which includes the impact of existing deferred rents and tenant improvement allowances on the consolidated balance sheets as of July 1, 2019 for the Company’s real estate leases.
No items were identified during this evaluation that required adjustment to or disclosure in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Corporate and Eliminations, which captures the Company’s corporate administrative activities, is also reported in the segment information.
The Company’s corporate administration activities are reported in the Corporate and Eliminations line item.
These activities primarily include intercompany profit in inventory eliminations, expense related to certain corporate officers and support staff, the Company’s internal audit staff, expense related to the Company’s Board of Directors, equity compensation expense for various equity awards granted to corporate administration employees, certain consulting expenses, investor relations activities, and a portion of the Company’s legal, auditing and professional fee expenses.
There was no concentration of consolidated net sales in the three months ended September 30, 2019 or 2018.
There was no concentration of accounts receivable at September 30, 2018 or June 30, 2019.
The segment net sales reported above represent sales to external customers.
Segment operating income, which is used in management’s evaluation of segment performance, represents net sales less all operating expenses.
Identifiable assets are those assets used by each segment in its operations.
The Company’s operations are located solely within the United States.
    (a)   Includes shares accounted for like treasury stock.
    (b)   Calculated using the “Treasury Stock” method as if dilutive securities were exercised and the funds were used to purchase common shares at the average market price during the period.
    (c)   Options to purchase 2,861,423 common shares and 3,146,466 common shares at September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were not included in the computation of the three month period for diluted earnings per share, respectively, because the exercise price was greater than the average fair market value of the common shares.
The carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are reviewed at least annually for possible impairment.
The Company may first assess qualitative factors in order to determine if goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired.
If through the qualitative assessment it is determined that it is more likely than not that goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not impaired, no further testing is required.
If it is determined more likely than not that goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are impaired, or if the Company elects not to first assess qualitative factors, the Company’s impairment testing continues with the estimation of the fair value of the reporting unit using a combination of a market approach and an income (discounted cash flow) approach, at the reporting unit level.
Company management uses its judgment in assessing whether assets may have become impaired between annual impairment tests.
The Company has a total of two reporting units that contain goodwill.
In February 2019, the Company amended its secured line of credit to a $75 million facility from a $100 million facility in order to better match its financing needs with an appropriate borrowing capacity.
The line of credit expires in the third quarter of fiscal 2022.
The increment over the LIBOR borrowing rate, as periodically determined, fluctuates between 125 and 250 basis points depending upon the ratio of indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), as defined in the line of credit agreement.
Under the terms of this line of credit, the Company has agreed to a negative pledge of real estate assets and is required to comply with financial covenants that limit the ratio of indebtedness to EBITDA and require a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio.
As of September 30, 2019, there was $23.2 million borrowed against the line of credit, and $51.8 million was available as of that date.
The Company is in compliance with all of its loan covenants as of September 30, 2019.
Dividends on restricted stock units in the amount of $34,842 and $31,553 were accrued as of September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In November 2019, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share payable November 26, 2019 to shareholders of record as of November 18, 2019.
The indicated annual cash dividend rate is $0.20 per share.
In November 2019, the Company’s shareholders approved the 2019 Omnibus Award Plan.
The purpose of the plan is to provide a means through which the Company may attract and retain key personnel and to provide a means by which directors, officers, and employees can acquire and maintain an equity interest in the Company.
This plan replaced the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan.
The number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance under the plan is 2,650,000 which will be combined with the remaining shares available under the previous plan of 1,147,429 shares as of September 30, 2019 for total number of shares available for issuance of approximately 3.8 million.
The plan implements the use of a fungible share ratio that consumes 2.5 available shares for every full value share awarded by the Company as stock compensation.
The 2019 Omnibus Award Plan allows for the grant of non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, performance stock units, and other stock-based awards.
Stock compensation expense was $398,000 and $551,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The Company may occasionally issue a standby letter of credit in favor of third parties.
As of September 30, 2019, there were no such standby letters of credit issued.
Of the total $990,000 reported as of September 30, 2019, $591,000 has been classified as a current liability and will be paid out over the next twelve months.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company sold its New Windsor, New York facility.
The net proceeds from the sale was $12.3 million resulting in a gain of $4.8 million.
The Company leases two of its manufacturing facilities along with a small office space, a company vehicle, several forklifts, several small tooling items, and various items of office equipment.
All of the Company’s leases are operating leases and are included in other long-term assets with the corresponding liability in other long-term liabilities.
Leases have a remaining term of 1 to 5 years some of which have an option to renew.
The Company does not assume renewals in determining the lease term unless the renewals are deemed reasonably certain.
The lease agreements do not contain any material residual guarantees or material variable lease payments.
The Company has periodically entered into short-term operating leases with an initial term of twelve months or less.
These leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
The Company has certain leases that contain lease and non-lease components and has elected to utilize the practical expedient to account for these components together as a single lease component.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The adoption of the new lease standard resulted in the recognition of right-of-use assets (ROU assets) of $10.4 million and lease liabilities of 10.8 million which includes the impact of existing deferred rents and tenant improvement allowances on the consolidated balance sheets as of July 1, 2019 for the Company’s real estate leases.
This continual estimation process often results in a change to the expected effective income tax rate for the year.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company sold its New Windsor, New York facility resulting in a book gain of $4.8 million.
