fls.txt



item1.txt
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 13, 2018.
The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2018 was derived from audited financial statements.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The reporting change had no impact to previously reported segment net revenue, consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net earnings per share (“EPS”).
On November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“Hewlett Packard Enterprise”), Hewlett-Packard Company’s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the “Separation”).
For more information on the impacts of these agreements, see Note 6, “Supplementary Financial Information”, Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” and Note 13, “Guarantees, Indemnifications and Warranties”.
The implementation of this guidance resulted in a $69 million reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive loss to accumulated deficit.
In March 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance, which addresses the improvement of the presentation of net periodic pension and net periodic post-retirement benefit cost.
The guidance requires entities to present the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost in the same income statement line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period.
Additionally, the guidance requires that companies present the other components of the net periodic benefit cost separately from the line item that includes service cost and any other subtotal of income from operations.
A practical expedient allows companies to use the amount disclosed in its pension and other post-retirement plan note for the prior comparative periods as the estimation basis for applying the retrospective presentation requirements.


item2.txt
An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.
We are focused on Services including Device as a Service as the market begins to shift to contractual solutions.
We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.
The shift to contractual solutions includes a continued focus on MPS and Instant Ink, supporting our strategy of placing higher value printer units (including our A3 products and solutions) which offer strong annuity of toner and ink.
We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models.
One set of challenges relates to dynamic market trends, such as forecasted declining PC Client markets and home printing markets.
Additional challenges we face at the segment level are set forth below.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.


