fls.txt



item1.txt
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 13, 2018.
The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2018 was derived from audited financial statements.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The reporting change had no impact to previously reported segment net revenue, consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net earnings per share (“EPS”).
On November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“Hewlett Packard Enterprise”), Hewlett-Packard Company’s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the “Separation”).
For more information on the impacts of these agreements, see Note 6, “Supplementary Financial Information”, Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” and Note 13, “Guarantees, Indemnifications and Warranties”.
In March 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance, which addresses the improvement of the presentation of net periodic pension and net periodic post-retirement benefit cost.
The guidance requires entities to present the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost in the same income statement line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period.
Additionally, the guidance requires that companies present the other components of the net periodic benefit cost separately from the line item that includes service cost and any other subtotal of income from operations.
A practical expedient allows companies to use the amount disclosed in its pension and other post-retirement plan note for the prior comparative periods as the estimation basis for applying the retrospective presentation requirements.


item2.txt
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
Additionally, we are investing in premium form factors such as convertible notebooks to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices.
We have increased our focus on Device as a Service as the market begins to shift to contractual solutions.
We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.
•In Printing, our strategic growth focus is on shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings, which support accelerated growth in our Graphic solutions.
Our primary competitors are exerting competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.
•In Personal Systems, we face challenges with industry component availability.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Mine Safety Disclosures.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
We compete on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support and security.


