Item 1.Financial Statements (Unaudited)
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The accompanying financial data as of April 28, 2018 and for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017 has been prepared by the Company, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 29, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
However, the Company believes that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2017.
The Company consolidates its investments in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and its affiliates (“SOFTBANK”) as this is a variable interest entity and the Company is the primary beneficiary.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to SOFTBANK are presented as a separate component from the Company’s equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
SOFTBANK’s share of the earnings in the venture fund are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of April 28, 2018; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017; the statements of cash flows and equity for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, as applicable, have been made.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full fiscal year or any future periods.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the amounts in prior periods in order to conform to the current period’s presentation.
The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
Share-Based Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that impacts the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Cisco adopted this accounting standard update beginning the first quarter of fiscal 2018 on a prospective basis.
This resulted in an overall decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 due to recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.
The application of this accounting standard update did not have a material impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income In February 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that allows companies to reclassify from accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI") to retained earnings stranded tax effects resulting from the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act").
The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted.
Cisco early adopted this accounting standard update in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and elected not to reclassify prior periods.
Adoption of this standard resulted in a decrease of $45 million to retained earnings due to the reclassification from AOCI to retained earnings.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.
The new standard will supersede nearly all U.S. GAAP on revenue recognition and eliminate industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle of the new standard is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
It also requires increased disclosures including the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows related to contracts with customers.
Cisco is on schedule in establishing new accounting policies, implementing systems and processes (including more extensive use of estimates), and internal controls necessary to support the requirements of the new standard.
Cisco has completed its preliminary assessment of the financial statement impact of the new standard, as discussed below, and will continue to update that assessment as more information becomes available.
In addition to the above revenue recognition timing impacts, the new standard will require incremental contract acquisition costs (such as sales commissions) for customer contracts to be capitalized and amortized over the contract period.
Currently, these costs are expensed as incurred.
Cisco will be required to record cumulative effect adjustments to retained earnings (net of tax) upon adopting the new standard at the beginning of fiscal 2019.
The most significant of these adjustments will be to reduce product deferred revenue and increase retained earnings at the date of adoption to reflect revenue that would have been already recognized under the new standard related to existing arrangements.
There will also be an adjustment to increase accounts receivable and reduce inventories related to the changes in revenue recognition on sales to two-tier distributors.
Lastly, an adjustment will be recorded to establish an asset and increase retained earnings related to the requirement to capitalize incremental contract acquisition costs for customer contracts.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Financial Instruments In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and early adoption is permitted.
The most significant impact of this accounting standard update for Cisco is that it will require the remeasurement of investments that are not accounted for under the equity method at fair value at the end of each reporting period with the changes recorded to the income statement.
While Cisco is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Financial Statements, Cisco expects that this accounting standard update will increase the variability of other income (loss), net.
Leases In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update and subsequent amendments related to leases requiring lessees to recognize operating and financing lease liabilities on the balance sheet, as well as corresponding right-of-use assets.
The new lease standard also makes some changes to lessor accounting and aligns key aspects of the lessor accounting model with the revenue recognition standard.
In addition, disclosures will be required to enable users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
Cisco is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Credit Losses of Financial Instruments  In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectibility of the reported amount.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption in fiscal 2020 is permitted.
Cisco is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Classification of Cash Flow Elements In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update related to the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments on the statement of cash flows.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
Cisco is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Income Taxes on Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that requires recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets (other than inventory) at the transaction date.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
Cisco currently estimates a net increase of approximately $1.3 billion to net deferred tax assets and retained earnings upon adoption of the standard related to the unrecognized income tax effects of asset transfers that occurred prior to the adoption date.
The ongoing impact of this standard will be facts and circumstances dependent on any transactions within its scope.
Restricted Cash in Statement of Cash Flow In November 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that provides guidance on the classification and presentation of changes in restricted cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using a retrospective transition method to each period presented, and early adoption is permitted.
Cisco does not expect that this accounting standard update will have a material impact on its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Definition of a Business In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that clarifies the definition of a business to help companies evaluate whether acquisition or disposal transactions should be accounted for as asset groups or as businesses.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a prospective basis.
The impact of this accounting standard update will be fact dependent, but Cisco expects that some transactions that were previously accounted for as business combinations or disposal transactions will be accounted for as asset purchases or asset sales under the accounting standard update.
Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment  In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that removes Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test, which requires the assessment of fair value of individual assets and liabilities of a reporting unit to measure goodwill impairments.
Goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying value exceeds its fair value.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 on a prospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
Cisco does not expect that this accounting standard update will impact its Consolidated Financial Statements.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
On July 31, 2017, the Company completed its acquisition of privately held Viptela Inc. ("Viptela"), a provider of software-defined wide area networking products.
Revenue from the Viptela acquisition has been included in the Company's Infrastructure Platforms product category.
On September 22, 2017, the Company completed its acquisition of privately held Springpath, Inc. ("Springpath"), a hyperconvergence software company.
Revenue from the Springpath acquisition has been included in the Company's Infrastructure Platforms product category.
On February 1, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of publicly held BroadSoft, Inc. ("BroadSoft"), a cloud calling and contact center solutions company.
Revenue from the BroadSoft acquisition has been included in the Company's Applications product category.
The purchase price allocation for acquisitions completed during recent periods is preliminary and subject to revision as additional information about fair value of assets and liabilities becomes available.
Additional information that existed as of the acquisition date but at that time was unknown to the Company may become known to the Company during the remainder of the measurement period, a period not to exceed 12 months from the acquisition date.
Adjustments in the purchase price allocation may require a recasting of the amounts allocated to goodwill retroactive to the period in which the acquisition occurred.
The goodwill generated from acquisitions completed during the nine months ended April 28, 2018 is primarily related to expected synergies.
The goodwill is generally not deductible for income tax purposes.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each acquisition from the date of acquisition.
Pro forma results of operations for the acquisitions completed during the nine months ended April 28, 2018 have not been presented because the effects of the acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to the Company’s financial results.
The Company completed two divestitures during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The financial statement impact of these divestitures was not material for the nine months ended April 28, 2018.
Pending Divestiture On May 1, 2018, the Company announced a definitive agreement to sell its Service Provider Video Software Solutions ("SPVSS") business.
As of April 28, 2018, this business had tangible assets of approximately $200 million (primarily comprised of accounts receivables, inventories and various other current and long-term assets) and net intangible assets and goodwill (based on relative fair value) of $300 million.
In addition, the business had total liabilities of approximately $370 million (primarily comprised of deferred revenue and various other current and long-term liabilities).
These assets and liabilities were held for sale and were not presented separately as the amounts were not material to the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
4.Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets
“Other” in the table above primarily consists of foreign currency translation, as well as immaterial purchase accounting adjustments.
Purchased intangible assets include intangible assets acquired through acquisitions as well as through direct purchases or licenses.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
5.Restructuring and Other Charges
Fiscal 2018 Plan The Company initiated a restructuring plan in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 (the "Fiscal 2018 Plan") in order to realign the organization and enable further investment in key priority areas.
The total pretax charges are estimated to be approximately $300 million.
In connection with the Fiscal 2018 Plan, the Company incurred charges of $82 million for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018.
These aggregate pretax charges are primarily cash based and consist of employee severance and other one-time termination benefits, and other associated costs.
The Company expects the Fiscal 2018 Plan to be substantially completed in fiscal 2019.
Fiscal 2017 Plan The Company began taking action under a restructuring plan in August 2016 (the "Fiscal 2017 Plan"), in order to reinvest in its key priority areas.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company extended the Fiscal 2017 Plan to include an additional $150 million of estimated additional pretax charges for employee severance and other one-time termination benefits.
The Company incurred cumulative charges of approximately $1.0 billion, which were primarily cash based and consisted of employee severance and other one-time termination benefits, and other associated costs.
The Company completed the Fiscal 2017 Plan in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
7.Financing Receivables and Operating Leases
Financing receivables primarily consist of lease receivables, loan receivables, and financed service contracts.
Lease receivables represent sales-type and direct-financing leases resulting from the sale of the Company’s and complementary third-party products and are typically collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets.
Lease receivables consist of arrangements with terms of four years on average.
Loan receivables represent financing arrangements related to the sale of the Company’s hardware, software, and services, which may include additional funding for other costs associated with network installation and integration of the Company’s products and services.
Loan receivables generally have terms of up to three years.
Financed service contracts include financing receivables related to technical support and advanced services.
Revenue related to the technical support services is typically deferred and included in deferred service revenue and is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed, which typically ranges from one to three years.
Actual cash collections may differ from the contractual maturities due to early customer buyouts, refinancings, or defaults.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
The Company’s internal credit risk ratings of 1 through 4 correspond to investment-grade ratings, while credit risk ratings of 5 and 6 correspond to non-investment grade ratings.
Credit risk ratings of 7 and higher correspond to substandard ratings.
In circumstances when collectibility is not deemed reasonably assured, the associated revenue is deferred in accordance with the Company’s revenue recognition policies, and the related allowance for credit loss, if any, is included in deferred revenue.
The Company also records deferred revenue associated with financing receivables when there are remaining performance obligations, as it does for financed service contracts.
Past due financing receivables are those that are 31 days or more past due according to their contractual payment terms.
The data in the preceding tables is presented by contract, and the aging classification of each contract is based on the oldest outstanding receivable, and therefore past due amounts also include unbilled and current receivables within the same contract.
The balances
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
of either unbilled or current financing receivables included in the category of 91 days plus past due for financing receivables were $618 million and $666 million as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, respectively.
As of April 28, 2018, the Company had financing receivables of $311 million, net of unbilled or current receivables, that were in the category of 91 days plus past due but remained on accrual status as they are well secured and in the process of collection.
Such balance was $315 million as of July 29, 2017.
The Company assesses the allowance for credit loss related to financing receivables on either an individual or a collective basis.
The Company considers various factors in evaluating lease and loan receivables and the earned portion of financed service contracts for possible impairment on an individual basis.
These factors include the Company’s historical experience, credit quality and age of the receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer’s ability to pay.
When the evaluation indicates that it is probable that all amounts due pursuant to the contractual terms of the financing agreement, including scheduled interest payments, are unable to be collected, the financing receivable is considered impaired.
All such outstanding amounts, including any accrued interest, will be assessed and fully reserved at the customer level.
The Company’s internal credit risk ratings are categorized as 1 through 10, with the lowest credit risk rating representing the highest quality financing receivables.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Typically, the Company also considers receivables with a risk rating of 8 or higher to be impaired and will include them in the individual assessment for allowance.
These balances, as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, are presented under “(b) Credit Quality of Financing Receivables” above.
The Company evaluates the remainder of its financing receivables portfolio for impairment on a collective basis and records an allowance for credit loss at the portfolio segment level.
When evaluating the financing receivables on a collective basis, the Company uses expected default frequency rates published by a major third-party credit-rating agency as well as its own historical loss rate in the event of default, while also systematically giving effect to economic conditions, concentration of risk, and correlation.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Non-U.S. government and agency securities include agency and corporate debt securities that are guaranteed by non-U.S. governments.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
The net realized losses related to the Company's available-for-sale investments included impairment charges of $26 million and $52 million for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended April 29, 2017, the net realized losses related to the Company's available-for-sale investments included impairment charges of $73 million.
These impairment charges related primarily to publicly traded equity securities and were due to a decline in the fair value of those securities below their cost basis that were determined to be other than temporary.
As of April 28, 2018, for fixed income securities that were in unrealized loss positions, the Company has determined that (i) it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii) it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis.
In addition, as of April 28, 2018, the Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the nine months ended April 28, 2018.
The Company has evaluated its publicly traded equity securities as of April 28, 2018 and has determined that there were no additional other-than-temporary impairments in the respective categories of unrealized losses.
This determination was based on several factors, which include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company’s intent and ability to hold the publicly traded equity securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.
The Company periodically engages in securities lending activities with certain of its available for sale investments.
These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis.
The average daily balance of securities lending for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017 was $0.3 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively.
The Company requires collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets.
The Company engages in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify the Company against collateral losses.
The Company did not experience any losses in connection with the secured lending of securities during the periods presented.
As of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, the Company had no outstanding securities lending transactions.
For additional information on impairment charges related to investments in privately held companies, see Note 9.
Variable Interest Entities In the ordinary course of business, the Company has investments in privately held companies and provides financing to certain customers.
These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities.
The Company evaluates on an ongoing basis its investments in these privately held companies and its customer financings, and has determined that as of April 28, 2018, except as disclosed in Note 1, there were no significant variable interest entities required to be consolidated in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of April 28, 2018, the carrying value of investments in privately held companies was $969 million, of which $511 million of such investments are considered to be in variable interest entities which are unconsolidated.
In addition, the Company has additional funding commitments of $212 million related to these investments, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand.
The carrying value of these investments and the additional funding commitments collectively represent the Company's maximum exposure related to these variable interest entities.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it also considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Level 1 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets); or model-derived valuations in which significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.
Level 3 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
fair value of these assets and liabilities.
The Company uses such pricing data as the primary input to make its assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of its investment portfolio and has not made, during the periods presented, any material adjustments to such inputs.
The Company is ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates.
The Company’s derivative instruments are primarily classified as Level 2, as they are not actively traded and are valued using pricing models that use observable market inputs.
The Company did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the periods presented.
Level 3 assets include certain derivative instruments, the values of which are determined based on discounted cash flow models using inputs that the Company could not corroborate with market data.
These assets were measured at fair value due to events or circumstances the Company identified as having significant impact on their fair value during the respective periods.
To arrive at the valuation of these assets, the Company considers any significant changes in the financial metrics and economic variables and also uses third-party valuation reports to assist in the valuation as necessary.
The fair value measurement of the impaired investments was classified as Level 3 because significant unobservable inputs were used in the valuation due to the absence of quoted market prices and inherent lack of liquidity.
Significant unobservable inputs, which included financial metrics of comparable private and public companies, financial condition and near-term prospects of the investees, recent financing activities of the investees, and the investees’ capital structure as well as other economic variables, reflected the assumptions market participants would use in pricing these assets.
The impairment charges, representing the difference between the net book value and the fair value as a result of the evaluation, were recorded to other income (loss), net.
The remaining carrying value of the investments that were impaired was $56 million and $92 million as of April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
The fair value for purchased intangible assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis was categorized as Level 3 due to the use of significant unobservable inputs in the valuation.
Significant unobservable inputs that were used included expected revenues and net income related to the assets and the expected life of the assets.
The difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of the assets was recorded as an impairment charge, which was included in product cost of sales and operating expenses as applicable.
See Note 4.
The remaining carrying value of the specific purchased intangible assets that were impaired was zero and $7 million as of April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
The fair value of property held for sale was measured with the assistance of third-party valuation models, which used discounted cash flow techniques as part of their analysis.
The fair value measurement was categorized as Level 3, as significant unobservable inputs were used in the valuation report.
The impairment charge as a result of the valuations, which represented the difference between the fair value less cost to sell and the carrying amount of the assets held for sale, was included in restructuring and other charges.
The remaining carrying value of the property held for sale that was impaired was zero and $11 million as of April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
The carrying value of investments in privately held companies that were accounted for under the cost method was $851 million and $859 million as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, respectively.
It was not practicable to estimate the fair value of this portfolio.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
The fair value of short-term loan receivables and financed service contracts approximates their carrying value due to their short duration.
The aggregate carrying value of long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017 was $3.6 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively.
The estimated fair value of long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts approximates their carrying value.
The Company uses significant unobservable inputs in determining discounted cash flows to estimate the fair value of its long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts, and therefore they are categorized as Level 3.
As of April 28, 2018, the estimated fair value of the short-term debt approximates its carrying value due to the short maturities.
As of April 28, 2018, the fair value of the Company’s senior notes and other long-term debt was $29.0 billion with a carrying amount of $28.1 billion.
This compares to a fair value of $32.1 billion and a carrying amount of $30.5 billion as of July 29, 2017.
The fair value of the senior notes and other long-term debt was determined based on observable market prices in a less active market and was categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
The Company has a short-term debt financing program of up to $10.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper notes.
The Company uses the proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes for general corporate purposes.
The effective rates for the short- and long-term debt include the interest on the notes, the accretion of the discount, the issuance costs, and, if applicable, adjustments related to hedging.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
The Company entered into interest rate swaps in prior periods with an aggregate notional amount of $6.75 billion designated as fair value hedges of certain of its fixed-rate senior notes.
These swaps convert the fixed interest rates of the fixed-rate notes to floating interest rates based on the London InterBank Offered Rate ("LIBOR").
The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the changes in market interest rates.
For additional information, see Note 11.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes and payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes.
Each of the senior fixed-rate notes is redeemable by the Company at any time, subject to a make-whole premium.
The senior notes rank at par with the commercial paper notes that have been issued in the future pursuant to the Company’s short-term debt financing program, as discussed above under “(a) Short-Term Debt.” As of April 28, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants.
This credit agreement requires that the Company comply with certain covenants, including that the Company maintains an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement.
As of April 28, 2018, the Company was in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and the Company had not borrowed any funds under this credit facility.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
The Company uses derivative instruments primarily to manage exposures to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and equity price risks.
The Company’s primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices.
The Company’s derivatives expose it to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreement.
The Company does, however, seek to mitigate such risks by limiting its counterparties to major financial institutions.
In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one counterparty resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored.
Management does not expect material losses as a result of defaults by counterparties.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
As of April 28, 2018, the Company estimates that approximately $18 million of net derivative gains related to its cash flow hedges included in AOCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months when the underlying hedged item impacts earnings.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
The Company conducts business globally in numerous currencies.
Therefore, it is exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
To limit the exposure related to foreign currency changes, the Company enters into foreign currency contracts.
The Company does not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes.
The Company hedges forecasted foreign currency transactions related to certain operating expenses and service cost of sales with currency options and forward contracts.
These currency options and forward contracts, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than 24 months.
The Company assesses effectiveness based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives.
The effective portion of the derivative instrument’s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings.
The ineffective portion, if any, of the gain or loss is reported in earnings immediately.
During the periods presented, the Company did not discontinue any cash flow hedges for which it was probable that a forecasted transaction would not occur.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities such as foreign currency receivables, including long-term customer financings, investments, and payables.
These derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments.
Gains and losses on the contracts are included in other income (loss), net, and substantially offset foreign exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement of intercompany balances or other current assets, investments, or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting entity.
The Company hedges certain net investments in its foreign operations with forward contracts to reduce the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on the Company’s net investment in those foreign subsidiaries.
Interest Rate Derivatives, Investments The Company’s primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk.
To realize these objectives, the Company may utilize interest rate swaps or other derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges.
As of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, the Company did not have any outstanding interest rate derivatives related to its fixed income securities.
Interest Rate Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedges, Long-Term Debt In the nine months ended April 28, 2018, the Company did not enter into any interest rate swaps.
In prior fiscal years, the Company entered into interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges related to fixed-rate senior notes that are due in fiscal 2019 through 2025.
Under these interest rate swaps, the Company receives fixed-rate interest payments and makes interest payments based on LIBOR plus a fixed number of basis points.
The effect of such swaps is to convert the fixed interest rates of the senior fixed-rate notes to floating interest rates based on LIBOR.
The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are included in interest expense and substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the changes in market interest rates.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps was reflected in other current assets and other assets.
The Company may hold equity securities for strategic purposes or to diversify its overall investment portfolio.
The publicly traded equity securities in the Company’s portfolio are subject to price risk.
To manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, the Company has periodically entered into equity derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges.
The changes in the value of the hedging instruments are included in other income (loss), net, and offset the change in the fair value of the underlying hedged investment.
In addition, the Company periodically enters into equity derivatives that are not designated as accounting hedges.
The changes in the fair value of these derivatives are also included in other income (loss), net.
The Company is also exposed to variability in compensation charges related to certain deferred compensation obligations to employees.
Although not designated as accounting hedges, the Company utilizes derivatives such as total return swaps to economically hedge this exposure.
For the periods presented, amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were not material for fair value, cash flow, and net investment hedges.
In addition, hedge ineffectiveness for fair value, cash flow, and net investment hedges was not material for any of the periods presented.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
The Company purchases components from a variety of suppliers and uses several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for its products.
During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, the Company enters into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by the Company or establish the parameters defining the Company’s requirements.
A significant portion of the Company’s reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments.
Certain of these purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers relate to arrangements to secure long-term pricing for certain product components for multi-year periods.
In certain instances, these agreements allow the Company the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust the Company’s requirements based on its business needs prior to firm orders being placed.
The Company records a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of its future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of the Company’s excess and obsolete inventory.
As of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, the liability for these purchase commitments was $163 million and $162 million, respectively, and was included in other current liabilities.
In connection with the Company’s acquisitions, the Company has agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones or upon the continued employment with the Company of certain employees of the acquired entities.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
As of April 28, 2018, the Company estimated that future cash compensation expense of up to $370 million may be required to be recognized pursuant to the applicable business combination agreements.
Insieme Networks, Inc.
In fiscal 2012, the Company made an investment in Insieme, an early stage company focused on research and development in the data center market.
This investment included $100 million of funding and a license to certain of the Company’s technology.
During fiscal 2014, the Company acquired the remaining interests in Insieme, at which time the former noncontrolling interest holders became eligible to receive up to two milestone payments, which were determined using agreed-upon formulas based primarily on revenue for certain of Insieme’s products.
The former noncontrolling interest holders earned the maximum amount related to these two milestone payments and were paid approximately $436 million during the nine months ended April 29, 2017.
The Company recorded compensation expense of $9 million and $41 million during the three and nine months ended April 29, 2017, respectively, related to these milestone payments.
The Company does not expect a material amount of future compensation expense or further milestone payments related to this acquisition.
The Company also has certain funding commitments, primarily related to its investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand.
The funding commitments were $212 million and $216 million as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, respectively.
The Company accrues for warranty costs as part of its cost of sales based on associated material product costs, labor costs for technical support staff, and associated overhead.
The Company’s products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products the Company provides a limited lifetime warranty.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company provides financing guarantees for various third-party financing arrangements extended to channel partners and end-user customers.
Payments under these financing guarantee arrangements were not material for the periods presented.
Channel Partner Financing Guarantees The Company facilitates arrangements for third-party financing extended to channel partners, consisting of revolving short-term financing, generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days.
These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and, in some cases, the Company guarantees a portion of these arrangements.
The volume of channel partner financing was $7.1 billion and $6.6 billion for the three months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively, and was $20.7 billion and $19.7 billion for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
The balance of the channel partner financing subject to guarantees was $1.0 billion as of each of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
End-User Financing Guarantees The Company also provides financing guarantees for third-party financing arrangements extended to end-user customers related to leases and loans, which typically have terms of up to three years.
The volume of financing provided by third parties for leases and loans as to which the Company had provided guarantees was $3 million and $10 million for the three months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively, and was $29 million and $47 million for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Other Guarantees The Company’s other guarantee arrangements as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017 that were subject to recognition and disclosure requirements were not material.
In fiscal 2014, the Company recorded a charge to product cost of sales of $655 million resulting from failures related to products containing memory components manufactured by a single supplier between 2005 and 2010.
The Company performs regular assessments of the sufficiency of this liability and reduced the amount by $74 million and $164 million in fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, respectively based on updated analyses.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company further reduced the liability by $141 million to reflect lower than expected defects, actual usage history, and estimated lower future remediation costs as more of the impacted products age and near the end of the support period covered by the remediation program.
In addition, during the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company recorded a charge to product cost of sales of $125 million related to the expected remediation costs for anticipated failures in future periods of a widely-used component sourced from a third party which is included in several of the Company’s products.
The liabilities related to the supplier component remediation matters as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017 were $98 million and $174 million, respectively.
In the normal course of business, the Company indemnifies other parties, including customers, lessors, and parties to other transactions with the Company, with respect to certain matters.
The Company has agreed to hold such parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties.
These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim.
The Company has been asked to indemnify certain of the Company’s service provider customers that have been subject to patent infringement claims asserted by Sprint Communications Company, L.P. in federal court in Kansas and Delaware.
Sprint alleges that the service provider customers infringed Sprint’s patents by offering VoIP telephone services utilizing products provided by the Company generally in combination with those of other manufacturers.
Sprint seeks monetary damages.
Following a trial on March 3, 2017 against Time Warner Inc., a jury in Kansas found that Time Warner Cable willfully infringed five Sprint patents and awarded Sprint $139.8 million in damages.
On March 14, 2017, the Kansas court declined Sprint's request for enhanced damages and entered judgment in favor of Sprint for $139.8 million plus 1.06% in post-judgment interest.
On May 30, 2017, the Court awarded Sprint $20.3 million in pre-judgment interest and denied Time Warner Cable's post-trial motions.
Time Warner Cable has appealed.
On October 16, 2017, Sprint and Comcast Cable Communications, LLC reached resolution of the claims in Sprint's lawsuit against Comcast and, on October 19, 2017, the Kansas court dismissed Sprint's lawsuit.
On December 6, 2017, Sprint and Cox Communications, Inc. reached resolution of the claims in Sprint's lawsuit against Cox, and the Delaware court dismissed Sprint's lawsuit against Cox on December 7, 2017.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
On January 15, 2016, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. (“Huawei”) filed four patent infringement actions against T-Mobile US, Inc. and T-Mobile USA, Inc. (collectively, “T-Mobile”) in federal court in the Eastern District of Texas.
Huawei alleged that T-Mobile’s use of 3GPP standards to implement its 3G and 4G cellular networks infringed 12 patents.
Huawei's infringement allegations for some of the patents were based on T-Mobile's use of products provided by the Company in combination with those of other manufacturers.
T-Mobile requested indemnity by the Company with respect to portions of the network that use the Company's equipment.
On December 22, 2017, the Eastern District of Texas court dismissed Huawei's four lawsuits after the parties reached settlement, and T-Mobile's indemnity request was subsequently resolved.
For the nine months ended April 28, 2018, the Company recorded legal and indemnification settlement charges of $127 million to product cost of sales in relation to these matters.
At this time, the Company does not anticipate that its obligations regarding the final outcome of the above matters would be material.
In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors, and the Company’s Amended and Restated Bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to the Company’s agents.
It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the Company’s limited history with prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
Historically, payments made by the Company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the Company’s operating results, financial position, or cash flows.
Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated the Company’s Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of the Company’s products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against the Company’s Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities that remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $234 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.5 billion for interest, and $1.1 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of April 28, 2018.
The Company has completed a thorough review of the matters and believes the asserted claims against the Company’s Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and the Company is defending the claims vigorously.
While the Company believes there is no legal basis for the alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, the Company is unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against its Brazilian subsidiary and is unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any.
The Company does not expect a final judicial determination for several years.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
SSL SSL Services, LLC (“SSL”) has asserted claims for patent infringement against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
The proceeding was instituted on March 25, 2015.
SSL alleges that the Company's AnyConnect products that include Virtual Private Networking functions infringed a U.S. patent owned by SSL.
SSL seeks money damages from the Company.
On August 18, 2015, the Company petitioned the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (“PTAB”) of the United States Patent and Trademark Office to review whether the patent SSL has asserted against the Company is valid over prior art.
On February 23, 2016, a PTAB multi-judge panel found a reasonable likelihood that the Company would prevail in showing that SSL’s patent claims are unpatentable and instituted proceedings.
On June 28, 2016, in light of the PTAB’s decision to review the patent’s validity, the district court issued an order staying the district court case pending the final written decision from the PTAB.
On February 22, 2017, following a hearing, the PTAB issued its Final Written Decision that the patent’s claims are unpatentable.
SSL appealed this decision to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and, on May 7, 2018, the Federal Circuit summarily affirmed the PTAB's decision of unpatentability.
Straight Path On September 24, 2014, Straight Path IP Group, Inc. (“Straight Path”) asserted patent infringement claims against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, accusing the Company’s 9971 IP Phone, Unified Communications Manager working in conjunction with 9971 IP Phones, and Video Communication Server products of infringement.
All of the asserted patents have expired and Straight Path was therefore limited to seeking monetary damages for the alleged past infringement.
On November 13, 2017, the Court granted the Company's motion for summary judgment of non-infringement, thereby dismissing Straight Path's claims against the Company and cancelling a trial which had been set for March 12, 2018.
On January 16, 2018, Straight Path appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeal for the Federal Circuit.
DXC Technology On August 21, 2015, the Company and Cisco Systems Capital Corporation (“Cisco Capital”) filed an action in Santa Clara County Superior Court for declaratory judgment and breach of contract against HP Inc. (“HP”) regarding a services agreement for management services of a third party’s network.
HP had prepaid the service agreement through a financing arrangement with Cisco Capital, and had terminated its agreement with the Company.
Pursuant to the terms of the service agreement with HP, the Company determined the credit HP was entitled to receive under the agreement for certain prepaid amounts.
HP disputed the Company’s credit calculation and contended that the Company owes a larger credit to HP than the Company had calculated.
In December 2015, the Company filed an amended complaint which dropped the breach of contract claim in light of HP’s continuing payments to Cisco Capital under the financing arrangement.
On January 19, 2016, HP Inc. filed a counterclaim for breach of contract simultaneously with its answer to the amended complaint.
DXC Technology Corporation (“DXC”) reported that it is the party in interest in this matter pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement between the then Hewlett-Packard Co. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“HPE") and the subsequent Separation and Distribution Agreement between HPE and DXC.
On January 8, 2018, the court continued the trial date from March 12, 2018 to June 11, 2018.
The Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of this litigation due to uncertainty surrounding the litigation process.
However, the Company does not anticipate that its obligation, if any, regarding the final outcome of the dispute would be material.
Arista Networks, Inc. On February 24, 2016, Arista Networks, Inc. (“Arista”) filed a complaint against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California asserting monopolization claims in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act and an unfair competition claim under California Bus.
and Prof. Code § 17200.
On October 31, 2017, Arista filed an amended complaint for Sherman Act monopolization and § 17200 claims, alleging an anticompetitive scheme comprising the Company's copyright infringement action against Arista (which was based on Arista’s copying of the Company's copyright-protected user interfaces) and communications related to that litigation.
Arista seeks injunctive relief, lost profits, enhanced damages, and restitution.
A jury trial is scheduled for August 6, 2018.
The Company believes it has strong arguments that its conduct was lawful, legally protected, and not anticompetitive, as well as strong defenses to defeat Arista’s claims.
However, due to uncertainty surrounding litigation processes, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of this litigation at this time.
However, the Company does not anticipate that any final outcome of the dispute would be material.
Oyster Optics On November 24, 2016, Oyster Optics, LLC (“Oyster”) asserted patent infringement claims against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
Oyster alleges that certain Cisco ONS 15454 and NCS 2000 line cards infringe U.S. Patent No.
7,620,327 (“the ‘327 Patent”).
Oyster seeks monetary damages.
Oyster filed infringement claims based on the ‘327 Patent against other defendants, including ZTE, Nokia, NEC, Infinera, Huawei, Ciena, Alcatel-Lucent, and Fujitsu, and the court consolidated the cases alleging infringement of the ‘327 Patent.
The court set a trial date of June 4, 2018 for the cases against Infinera, Alcatel-Lucent, the Company and Huawei.
While the Company believes that it has strong non-infringement arguments and that the patent is invalid, if the Company does not prevail in the District Court, the Company believes damages ultimately assessed would not be material.
Due to uncertainty surrounding patent litigation processes, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of this litigation at this time.
However, the Company does not anticipate that any final outcome of the dispute would be material.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
In addition, the Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property litigation.
While the outcome of these matters is currently not determinable, the Company does not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
During the nine months ended April 28, 2018, the Company declared and paid cash dividends of $0.91 per common share, or $4.4 billion, on the Company’s outstanding common stock.
During the nine months ended April 29, 2017, the Company declared and paid cash dividends of $0.81 per common share, or $4.1 billion, on the Company’s outstanding common stock.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of the Company's Board of Directors.
There were $150 million stock repurchases pending settlement as of April 28, 2018.
There were $66 million of stock repurchases that were pending settlement as of July 29, 2017.
The purchase price for the shares of the Company’s stock repurchased is reflected as a reduction to shareholders’ equity.
The Company is required to allocate the purchase price of the repurchased shares as (i) a reduction to retained earnings and (ii) a reduction of common stock and additional paid-in capital.
The Company repurchased approximately 16 million shares for each of the nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, or $541 million and $497 million of common stock, respectively, in settlement of employee tax withholding obligations due upon the vesting of restricted stock or stock units.
Under the terms of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may determine the rights, preferences, and terms of the Company’s authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
2005 Plan  As of April 28, 2018, the maximum number of shares issuable under the 2005 Plan over its term was 694 million shares, plus shares from certain previous plans that are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled.
If any awards granted under the 2005 Plan are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, the unexercised or unsettled shares underlying the awards will again be available under the 2005 Plan.
In addition, starting November 19, 2013, shares withheld by the Company from an award other than a stock option or stock appreciation right to satisfy withholding tax liabilities resulting from such award will again be available for issuance, based on the fungible share ratio in effect on the date of grant.
Pursuant to an amendment approved by the Company's shareholders on November 12, 2009, the number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan is reduced by 1.5 shares for each share awarded as a stock grant or a stock unit, and any shares underlying awards outstanding from certain previous plans that expire unexercised at the end of their maximum terms become available for reissuance under the 2005 Plan.
The 2005 Plan permits the granting of stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units ("RSUs"), the vesting of which may be performance-based or market-based along with the requisite service requirement, and stock appreciation rights to employees (including employee directors and officers), consultants of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and non-employee directors of the Company.
Stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under the 2005 Plan have an exercise price of at least 100% of the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date.
The expiration date for stock options and stock appreciation rights shall be no later than 10 years from the grant date.
The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which includes its subplan named the International Employee Stock Purchase Plan (together, the “Purchase Plan”), under which 621 million shares of the Company’s common stock have been reserved for issuance as of April 28, 2018.
Eligible employees are offered shares through a 24-month offering period, which consists of four consecutive 6-month purchase periods.
Employees may purchase a limited number of shares of the Company’s stock at a discount of up to 15% of the lesser of the market value at the beginning of the offering period or the end of each 6-month purchase period.
The Purchase Plan is scheduled to terminate on January 3, 2020.
The Company issued 12 million shares under the Purchase Plan during each of the nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017.
As of April 28, 2018, 88 million shares were available for issuance under the Purchase Plan.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
As of April 28, 2018, the total compensation cost related to unvested share-based awards not yet recognized was $3.0 billion which is expected to be recognized over approximately 2.5 years on a weighted-average basis.
As reflected in the preceding table, for each share awarded as restricted stock or subject to a restricted stock unit award under the 2005 Plan, an equivalent of 1.5 shares was deducted from the available share-based award balance.
For restricted stock units that were awarded with vesting contingent upon the achievement of future financial performance or market-based metrics, the maximum awards that can be achieved upon full vesting of such awards were reflected in the preceding table.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on the Company’s closing stock price of $44.71 as of April 27, 2018, that would have been received by the option holders had those option holders exercised their stock options as of that date.
The total number of in-the-money stock options exercisable as of April 28, 2018 was 5 million.
As of July 29, 2017, 6 million outstanding stock options were exercisable and the weighted-average exercise price was $5.61.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
The PRSUs granted during the periods presented are contingent on the achievement of the Company’s financial performance metrics, its comparative market-based returns, or the achievement of financial and non-financial operating goals.
For the awards based on financial performance metrics or comparative market-based returns, generally 50% of the PRSUs are earned based on the average of annual operating cash flow and earnings per share goals established at the beginning of each fiscal year over a three-year performance period.
Generally, the remaining 50% of the PRSUs are earned based on the Company’s TSR measured against the benchmark TSR of a peer group over the same period.
Each PRSU recipient could vest in 0% to 150% of the target shares granted contingent on the achievement of the Company's financial performance metrics or its comparative market-based returns and 0% to 100% of the target shares granted contingent on the achievement of non-financial operating goals.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted.
The Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering the statutory corporate income tax rate (“federal tax rate”) from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, implementing a modified territorial tax system, and imposing a mandatory one-time transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries.
As a fiscal-year taxpayer, certain provisions of the Tax Act impact the Company in fiscal 2018, including the change in the federal tax rate and the one-time transition tax, while other provisions will be effective at the beginning of fiscal 2019, including the implementation of a modified territorial tax system and other changes to how foreign earnings are subject to U.S. tax, and elimination of the domestic manufacturing deduction.
As a result of the decrease in the federal tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, the Company has computed its income tax expense for the July 28, 2018 fiscal year using a blended federal tax rate of 27%.
The 21% federal tax rate will apply to the Company’s fiscal year ending July 27, 2019 and each year thereafter.
The Company must remeasure its deferred tax assets and liabilities ("DTA") using the federal tax rate that will apply when the related temporary differences are expected to reverse.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $75 billion in undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries.
These undistributed earnings were subject to the U.S. mandatory one-time transition tax and are eligible to be repatriated to the U.S. without additional U.S. tax under the Tax Act.
The Company has historically asserted its intention to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings in certain foreign subsidiaries.
The Company has reevaluated its historic assertion as a result of enactment of the Tax Act and no longer considers these earnings to be indefinitely reinvested in its foreign subsidiaries.
As a result of this change in assertion, the Company recorded a $1.2 billion tax expense for foreign withholding tax in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company repatriated $67 billion of foreign subsidiary earnings to the U.S. and paid foreign withholding tax of $1.2 billion.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded adjustments to the provisional amounts related to the U.S. transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries and re-measurement of net DTA.
During the nine months ended April 28, 2018, the Company recorded a provisional tax expense of $11.1 billion related to the Tax Act, comprised of $8.9 billion of U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax (discussed above), and $1.0 billion re-measurement of net DTA.
The Company plans to pay the transition tax in installments over eight years in accordance with the Tax Act.
The $1.2 billion foreign withholding tax was paid in February 2018.
As of April 28, 2018, the Company had $2.0 billion of unrecognized tax benefit, of which $1.7 billion, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective tax rate.
The Company regularly engages in discussions and negotiations with tax authorities regarding tax matters in various jurisdictions.
The Company believes it is reasonably possible that certain federal, foreign and state tax matters may be concluded in the next 12 months.
Specific positions that may be resolved include issues involving transfer pricing and various other matters.
The Company estimates that the unrecognized tax benefits at April 28, 2018 could be reduced by approximately $250 million in the next 12 months.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
17.Segment Information and Major Customers
Revenue in the United States was $6.2 billion for each of the three months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, and was $18.8 billion and $18.7 billion for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
The majority of the Company’s assets was attributable to its U.S. operations as of each of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
The Company’s total cash and cash equivalents and investments held by various foreign subsidiaries were $6.9 billion and $67.5 billion as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, respectively, and the remaining $47.5 billion and $3.0 billion at the respective period ends were available in the United States.
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
18.Net Income (Loss) per Share
Employee equity share options, unvested shares, and similar equity instruments are treated as potential common shares outstanding in computing diluted earnings per share.
Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money options, unvested restricted stock, and restricted stock units.
The dilutive effect of such equity awards is calculated based on the average share price for each fiscal period using the treasury stock method.
Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options and the amount of compensation cost for future service that has not yet recognized would be recorded in additional paid-in capital when the award becomes deductible are collectively assumed to be used to repurchase shares.
The Company excluded antidilutive employee-share based awards of 5 million and 6 million for the three months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
The Company excluded antidilutive employee-share based awards of 118 million for the nine months ended April 29, 2017.
For the nine months ended April 28, 2018, the Company excluded the impact of potentially dilutive common shares from the calculation of net income (loss) per share as the inclusion would have an antidilutive effect.
Item 1.Legal Proceedings
Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities that remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $234 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.5 billion for interest, and $1.1 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of April 28, 2018.
We have completed a thorough review of the matters and believe the asserted claims against our Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and we are defending the claims vigorously.
While we believe there is no legal basis for the alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against our Brazilian subsidiary and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any.
We do not expect a final judicial determination for several years.
SSL SSL Services, LLC (“SSL”) has asserted claims for patent infringement against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
The proceeding was instituted on March 25, 2015.
SSL alleges that our AnyConnect products that include Virtual Private Networking functions infringed a U.S. patent owned by SSL.
SSL seeks money damages from us.
On August 18, 2015, we petitioned the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (“PTAB”) of the United States Patent and Trademark Office to review whether the patent SSL has asserted against us is valid over prior art.
On February 23, 2016, a PTAB multi-judge panel found a reasonable likelihood that we would prevail in showing that SSL’s patent claims are unpatentable and instituted proceedings.
On June 28, 2016, in light of the PTAB’s decision to review the patent’s validity, the district court issued an order staying the district court case pending the final written decision from the PTAB.
On February 22, 2017, following a hearing, the PTAB issued its Final Written Decision that the patent’s claims are unpatentable.
SSL appealed this decision to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and, on May 7, 2018, the Federal Circuit summarily affirmed the PTAB's decision of unpatentability.
Straight Path On September 24, 2014, Straight Path IP Group, Inc. (“Straight Path”) asserted patent infringement claims against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, accusing our 9971 IP Phone, Unified Communications Manager working in conjunction with 9971 IP Phones, and Video Communication Server products of infringement.
All of the asserted patents have expired and Straight Path was therefore limited to seeking monetary damages for the alleged past infringement.
On
November 13, 2017, the Court granted our motion for summary judgment of non-infringement, thereby dismissing Straight Path's claims against us and cancelling a trial which had been set for March 12, 2018.
On January 16, 2018, Straight Path appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeal for the Federal Circuit.
DXC Technology On August 21, 2015, Cisco and Cisco Systems Capital Corporation (“Cisco Capital”) filed an action in Santa Clara County Superior Court for declaratory judgment and breach of contract against HP Inc. (“HP”) regarding a services agreement for management services of a third party’s network.
HP had prepaid the service agreement through a financing arrangement with Cisco Capital, and had terminated its agreement with us.
Pursuant to the terms of the service agreement with HP, we determined the credit HP was entitled to receive under the agreement for certain prepaid amounts.
HP disputed our credit calculation and contended that we owe a larger credit to HP than we had calculated.
In December 2015, we filed an amended complaint which dropped the breach of contract claim in light of HP’s continuing payments to Cisco Capital under the financing arrangement.
On January 19, 2016, HP Inc. filed a counterclaim for breach of contract simultaneously with its answer to the amended complaint.
DXC Technology Corporation (“DXC”) reported that it is the party in interest in this matter pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement between the then Hewlett-Packard Co. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“HPE") and the subsequent Separation and Distribution Agreement between HPE and DXC.
On January 8, 2018, the court continued the trial date from March 12, 2018 to June 11, 2018.
We are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of this litigation due to uncertainty surrounding the litigation process.
However, we do not anticipate that our obligation, if any, regarding the final outcome of the dispute would be material.
Arista Networks, Inc. On February 24, 2016, Arista Networks, Inc. (“Arista”) filed a complaint against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California asserting monopolization claims in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act and an unfair competition claim under California Bus.
and Prof. Code § 17200.
On October 31, 2017, Arista filed an amended complaint for Sherman Act monopolization and § 17200 claims, alleging an anticompetitive scheme comprising our copyright infringement action against Arista (which was based on Arista’s copying of our copyright-protected user interfaces) and communications related to that litigation.
Arista seeks injunctive relief, lost profits, enhanced damages, and restitution.
A jury trial is scheduled for August 6, 2018.
We believe we have strong arguments that our conduct was lawful, legally protected, and not anticompetitive, as well as strong defenses to defeat Arista’s claims.
However, due to uncertainty surrounding litigation processes, we are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of this litigation at this time.
However, we do not anticipate that any final outcome of the dispute would be material.
Oyster Optics On November 24, 2016, Oyster Optics, LLC (“Oyster”) asserted patent infringement claims against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
Oyster alleges that certain Cisco ONS 15454 and NCS 2000 line cards infringe U.S. Patent No.
7,620,327 (“the ‘327 Patent”).
Oyster seeks monetary damages.
Oyster filed infringement claims based on the ‘327 Patent against other defendants, including ZTE, Nokia, NEC, Infinera, Huawei, Ciena, Alcatel-Lucent, and Fujitsu, and the court consolidated the cases alleging infringement of the ‘327 Patent.
The court set a trial date of June 4, 2018 for the cases against Infinera, Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco and Huawei.
While we believe that we have strong non-infringement arguments and that the patent is invalid, if we do not prevail in the District Court, we believe damages ultimately assessed would not be material.
Due to uncertainty surrounding patent litigation processes, we are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of this litigation at this time.
However, we do not anticipate that any final outcome of the dispute would be material.
In addition, we are subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property litigation.
While the outcome of these matters is currently not determinable, we do not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
For additional information regarding intellectual property litigation, see “Part II, Item 1A.
Risk Factors-We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others” herein.
Item 1A.Risk Factors
Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report.
The descriptions below include any material changes to and supersede the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously disclosed in “Part I, Item 1A.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2017.
OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE IN FUTURE PERIODS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE
 • Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, especially with respect to service providers and Internet businesses, in part due to changes in the global economic environment
 • Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers’ spending plans and associated revenue
 • Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments
 • Price and product competition in the communications and networking industries, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation and different business models from various geographic regions
 • The overall movement toward industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers
 • The introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products, and our success in new and evolving markets, and in emerging technologies, as well as the adoption of new standards
 • The transformation of our business to deliver more software and subscription offerings where revenue is recognized over time
 • Variations in sales channels, product costs, mix of products sold, or mix of direct sales and indirect sales
 • The timing, size, and mix of orders from customers
 • Manufacturing and customer lead times
 • Fluctuations in our gross margins, and the factors that contribute to such fluctuations, as described below
 • The ability of our customers, channel partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures, especially during a period of global credit market disruption or in the event of customer, channel partner, contract manufacturer or supplier financial problems
 • Actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements
 • How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring charges
 • Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions
 • Benefits anticipated from our investments in engineering, sales, service, and marketing
 • Changes in tax laws or accounting rules, or interpretations thereof
As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods.
Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price.
OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS AND THE UNCERTAIN GEOPOLITICAL ENVIRONMENT
 • Reduced demand for our products as a result of continued constraints on IT-related capital spending by our customers, particularly service providers, and other customer markets as well
 • Increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors but also as a consequence of customers disposing of unutilized products
 • Risk of excess and obsolete inventories
 • Risk of supply constraints
 • Risk of excess facilities and manufacturing capacity
 • Higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue and higher interest expense
The global macroeconomic environment has been challenging and inconsistent.
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the recent United Kingdom “Brexit” referendum to withdraw from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in key markets, remain uncertain or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment.
For example, emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in product orders in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, in fiscal 2017, and in certain prior periods.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.
Trust and confidence in us as an IT supplier is critical to the development and growth of our markets.
Impairment of that trust, or foreign regulatory actions taken in response to reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government, could affect the demand for our products from customers outside of the United States and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
WE HAVE BEEN INVESTING AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO INVEST IN KEY PRIORITY AND GROWTH AREAS AS WELL AS MAINTAINING LEADERSHIP IN INFRASTRUCTURE PLATFORMS AND IN SERVICES, AND IF THE RETURN ON THESE INVESTMENTS IS LOWER OR DEVELOPS MORE SLOWLY THAN WE EXPECT, OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE HARMED
We expect to realign and dedicate resources into key priority and growth areas, such as Security and Applications, while also focusing on maintaining leadership in Infrastructure Platforms and in Services.
However, the return on our investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect.
If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments (including if our selection of areas for investment does not play out as we expect), or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.
OUR REVENUE FOR A PARTICULAR PERIOD IS DIFFICULT TO PREDICT, AND A SHORTFALL IN REVENUE MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS
As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty.
Our revenue may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or decline as it did in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and in fiscal 2017 on a year-over-year basis.
Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in some of our past quarters recurs in future periods.
We have experienced periods of time during which shipments have exceeded net bookings or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns.
In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs.
In addition, to the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods in which our contract manufacturers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters occur and are not remediated within the same quarter.
The timing of large orders can also have a significant effect on our business and operating results from quarter to quarter, primarily in the United States and in emerging countries.
From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue.
The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in revenue.
As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue.
Inventory management remains an area of focus.
We have experienced longer than normal manufacturing lead times in the past which have caused some customers to place the same order multiple times within our various sales channels and to cancel the duplicative orders upon receipt of the product, or to place orders with other vendors with shorter manufacturing lead times.
Such multiple ordering (along with other factors) or risk of order cancellation may cause difficulty in predicting our revenue and, as a result, could impair our ability to manage parts inventory effectively.
In addition, our efforts to improve manufacturing lead-time performance may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog.
A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter revenue and operating results.
In addition, when facing component supply-related challenges we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations, which in turn contribute to an increase in purchase commitments.
Increases in our purchase commitments to shorten lead times could also lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges if the demand for our products is less than our expectations.
We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels.
These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term.
A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes.
Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results.
WE EXPECT GROSS MARGIN TO VARY OVER TIME, AND OUR LEVEL OF PRODUCT GROSS MARGIN MAY NOT BE SUSTAINABLE
 • Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group
 • Introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages, and new business models including the transformation of our business to deliver more software and subscription offerings
 • Our ability to reduce production costs
 • Entry into new markets or growth in lower margin markets, including markets with different pricing and cost structures, through acquisitions or internal development
 • Sales discounts
 • Increases in material, labor or other manufacturing-related costs, which could be significant especially during periods of supply constraints such as those impacting the market for memory components
 • Excess inventory and inventory holding charges
 • Obsolescence charges
 • Changes in shipment volume
 • The timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals
 • Increased cost, loss of cost savings or dilution of savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand or if the financial health of either contract manufacturers or suppliers deteriorates
 • Lower than expected benefits from value engineering
 • Increased price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially from China
 • Changes in distribution channels
 • Increased warranty costs
 • Increased amortization of purchased intangible assets, especially from acquisitions
 • How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans
Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods.
SALES TO THE SERVICE PROVIDER MARKET ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE, AND WEAKNESS IN ORDERS FROM THIS INDUSTRY MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain other Infrastructure Platforms and Applications products, in addition to longer sales cycles.
Product orders from the service provider market decreased in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and in fiscal 2017, and at various times in the past we have experienced significant weakness in product orders from service providers.
Product orders from the service provider market could continue to decline and, as has been the case in the past, such weakness could persist over extended periods of time given fluctuating market conditions.
Sales activity in this industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding network infrastructures; the availability of funding; and the extent to which service providers are affected by regulatory, economic, and business conditions in the country of operations.
Weakness in orders from this industry, including as a result of any slowdown in capital expenditures by service providers (which may be more prevalent during a global economic downturn, or periods of economic, political or regulatory uncertainty), could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Such slowdowns may continue or recur in future periods.
Orders from this industry could decline for many reasons other than the competitiveness of our products and services within their respective markets.
For example, in the past, many of our service provider customers have been materially and adversely affected by slowdowns in the general economy, by overcapacity, by changes in the service provider market, by regulatory developments, and by constraints on capital availability, resulting in business failures and substantial reductions in spending and expansion plans.
These conditions have materially harmed our business and operating results in the past, and some of these or other conditions in the service provider market could affect our business and operating results in any future period.
Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors.
All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers.
DISRUPTION OF OR CHANGES IN OUR DISTRIBUTION MODEL COULD HARM OUR SALES AND MARGINS
If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, or if our distributors’ financial condition or operations weaken, our revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected.
A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales.
Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, and distributors.
Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales.
Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a number of service providers are also systems integrators.
Distributors stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers.
We refer to sales through distributors as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer.
Revenue from distributors is generally recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them.
These distributors are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs.
If sales through indirect channels
increase, this may lead to greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a degree, the timing of orders from our customers.
Historically, we have seen fluctuations in our gross margins based on changes in the balance of our distribution channels.
Although variability to date has not been significant, there can be no assurance that changes in the balance of our distribution model in future periods would not have an adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability.
 • We compete with some of our channel partners, including through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do not directly sell their own products or otherwise compete with them
 • Some of our channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear
 • Some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions
 • Revenue from indirect sales could suffer if our distributors’ financial condition or operations weaken
In addition, we depend on our channel partners globally to comply with applicable regulatory requirements.
To the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Further, sales of our products outside of agreed territories can result in disruption to our distribution channels.
THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE COMPETE ARE INTENSELY COMPETITIVE, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ACHIEVEMENT OF REVENUE GROWTH
The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages.
These market factors represent a competitive threat to us.
We compete with numerous vendors in each product category.
The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase.
Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in newer product areas, and in key priority and growth areas.
For example, as products related to network programmability, such as SDN products, become more prevalent, we expect to face increased competition from companies that develop networking products based on commoditized hardware, referred to as "white box" hardware, to the extent customers decide to purchase those product offerings instead of ours.
In addition, the growth in demand for technology delivered as a service enables new competitors to enter the market.
As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions.
In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue.
Our competitors include Amazon Web Services LLC; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Dell Technologies Inc.; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; FireEye, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Lenovo Group Limited; Microsoft Corporation; New Relic, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nutanix, Inc.; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.; Symantec Corporation; Ubiquiti Networks and VMware, Inc.; among others.
Some of our competitors compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area.
Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed.
In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do.
As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets.
We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products.
Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase.
For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated.
Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, ASICs offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments.
Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center.
As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners.
Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.
 • The ability to sell successful business outcomes
 • The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services
 • Product performance
 • Price
 • The ability to introduce new products, including providing continuous new customer value and products with price-performance advantages
 • The ability to reduce production costs
 • The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection
 • Conformance to standards
 • Market presence
 • The ability to provide financing
 • Disruptive technology shifts and new business models
We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology.
The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability.
As such, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies.
Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success.
OUR INVENTORY MANAGEMENT RELATING TO OUR SALES TO OUR TWO-TIER DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL IS COMPLEX, AND EXCESS INVENTORY MAY HARM OUR GROSS MARGINS
We must manage our inventory relating to sales to our distributors effectively, because inventory held by them could affect our results of operations.
Our distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products.
They also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them, and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand.
Revenue to our distributors generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and they are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling price, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs.
Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements.
When facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations.
If we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins.
SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES, INCLUDING FINANCIAL PROBLEMS OF CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS OR COMPONENT SUPPLIERS, OR A SHORTAGE OF ADEQUATE COMPONENT SUPPLY OR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY THAT INCREASED OUR COSTS OR CAUSED A DELAY IN OUR ABILITY TO FULFILL ORDERS, COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS, AND OUR FAILURE TO ESTIMATE CUSTOMER DEMAND PROPERLY MAY RESULT IN EXCESS OR OBSOLETE COMPONENT SUPPLY, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR GROSS MARGINS
 • Any financial problems of either contract manufacturers or component suppliers could either limit supply or increase costs
 • Reservation of manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or increase costs
 • Industry consolidation occurring within one or more component supplier markets, such as the semiconductor market, could either limit supply or increase costs
A reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more components; a failure to adequately authorize procurement of inventory by our contract manufacturers; a failure to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in demand for our products could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships.
Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market.
In the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross margins could decrease.
We have experienced longer than normal lead times in the past.
Although we have generally secured additional supply or taken other mitigation actions when significant disruptions have occurred, if similar situations occur in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
See the risk factor above entitled “Our revenue for a particular period is difficult to predict, and a shortfall in revenue may harm our operating results.”
Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract manufacturers.
We have experienced component shortages in the past, including shortages caused by manufacturing process issues, that have affected our operations.
We may in the future experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers including capacity or cost problems resulting from industry consolidation, or strong demand in the industry for those parts.
Growth in the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels and manufacturing capacity, especially for labor-intensive components, components for which we purchase a substantial portion of the supply, or the re-ramping of manufacturing capacity for highly complex products.
During periods of shortages or delays the price of components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs.
We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed.
Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed.
Our operating results would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need, which is more likely to occur in a period of demand uncertainties such as we are currently experiencing.
There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future.
Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources, and a global economic downturn and related market uncertainty could negatively impact the availability of components from one or more of these sources, especially during times such as we have recently seen when there are supplier constraints based on labor and other actions taken during economic downturns.
We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales.
 • New markets in which we participate may grow quickly, which may make it difficult to quickly obtain significant component capacity
 • As we acquire companies and new technologies, we may be dependent, at least initially, on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners
 • We face competition for certain components that are supply-constrained, from existing competitors, and companies in other markets
Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints could continue to be significant issues for us.
We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products.
During the normal course of business, in order to improve manufacturing lead-time performance and to help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements.
In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed.
When facing component supply-related challenges we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations, which in turn contributes to an increase in purchase commitments.
Increases in our purchase commitments to shorten lead times could also lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges if the demand for our products is less than our expectations.
If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an oversupply of parts could result in excess or obsolete components that could adversely affect our gross margins.
For additional information regarding our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
WE DEPEND UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PRODUCTS, AND IF WE FAIL TO PREDICT AND RESPOND TO EMERGING TECHNOLOGICAL TRENDS AND CUSTOMERS’ CHANGING NEEDS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND MARKET SHARE MAY SUFFER
The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, new product introductions, and evolving methods of building and operating networks.
Our operating results depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products into existing and emerging markets and to reduce the production costs of existing products.
Many of our strategic initiatives and investments we have made, and our architectural approach, are designed to enable the increased use of the network as the platform for automating, orchestrating, integrating, and delivering an ever-increasing array of IT-based products and services.
For example, in June 2017 we announced our Catalyst 9000 series of switches which represent the initial foundation of our intent-based networking capabilities.
Other current initiatives include our focus on security; the market transition related to digital transformation and IoT; the transition in cloud; and the move towards more programmable, flexible and virtual networks.
The process of developing new technology, including intent-based networking, more programmable, flexible and virtual networks, and technology related to other market transitions— such as security, digital transformation and IoT, and cloud— is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends our business could be harmed.
We must commit significant resources, including the investments we have been making in our priorities to developing new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept.
In particular, if our model of the evolution of networking does not emerge as we believe it will, or if the industry does not evolve as we believe it will, or if our strategy for addressing this evolution is not successful, many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of no or limited value.
For example, if we do not introduce products related to network programmability, such as software-defined-networking products, in a timely fashion, or if product offerings in this market that ultimately succeed are based on technology, or an approach to technology, that differs from ours, such as, for example, networking products based on “white box” hardware, our business could be harmed.
Similarly, our business could be harmed if we fail to develop, or fail to develop in a timely fashion, offerings to address other transitions, or if the offerings addressing these other transitions that ultimately succeed are based on technology, or an approach to technology, different from ours.
In addition, our business could be adversely affected in periods surrounding our new product introductions if customers delay purchasing decisions to qualify or otherwise evaluate the new product offerings.
Our strategy is to lead our customers in their digital transition with solutions that deliver greater agility, productivity, security and other advanced network capabilities, and that intelligently connect nearly everything that can be connected.
Over the last few years, we have been transforming our business to move from selling individual products and services to selling products and services integrated into architectures and solutions, and we are seeking to meet the evolving needs of customers which include offering our products and solutions in the manner in which customers wish to consume them.
As a part of this transformation, we continue to make changes to how we are organized and how we build and deliver our technology, including changes in our business models with customers.
If our strategy for addressing our customer needs, or the architectures and solutions we develop do not meet those needs, or the changes we are making in how we are organized and how we build and deliver or technology is incorrect or ineffective, our business could be harmed.
Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on our vision or strategy because of challenges with regard to product planning and timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources.
This could result in competitors, some of which may also be our strategic alliance partners, providing those solutions before we do and loss of market share, revenue, and earnings.
In addition, the growth in demand for technology delivered as a service enables new competitors to enter the market.
The success of new products depends on several factors, including proper new product definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products.
There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive.
The products and technologies in our other product categories and key priority and growth areas may not prove to have the market success we anticipate, and we may not successfully identify and invest in other emerging or new products.
CHANGES IN INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND MARKET CONDITIONS COULD LEAD TO CHARGES RELATED TO DISCONTINUANCES OF CERTAIN OF OUR PRODUCTS OR BUSINESSES, ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND WORKFORCE REDUCTIONS OR RESTRUCTURINGS
In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and to consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses.
Any resource realignment, or decision to limit investment in or dispose
of or otherwise exit businesses, may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction or restructuring costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products.
Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions.
Although in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel with contract manufacturers and suppliers.
Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions.
Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings.
We initiated a restructuring plan in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The implementation of this restructuring plan may be disruptive to our business, and following completion of the restructuring plan our business may not be more efficient or effective than prior to implementation of the plan.
Our restructuring activities, including any related charges and the impact of the related headcount restructurings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
OVER THE LONG TERM WE INTEND TO INVEST IN ENGINEERING, SALES, SERVICE AND MARKETING ACTIVITIES, AND THESE INVESTMENTS MAY ACHIEVE DELAYED, OR LOWER THAN EXPECTED, BENEFITS WHICH COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS
While we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest in personnel and other resources related to our engineering, sales, service and marketing functions as we realign and dedicate resources on key priority and growth areas, such as Security and Applications, and we also intend to focus on maintaining leadership in Infrastructure Platforms and in Services.
We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect.
If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.
OUR BUSINESS SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDS UPON THE CONTINUED GROWTH OF THE INTERNET AND INTERNET-BASED SYSTEMS
A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on growth and evolution of the Internet, including the continued development of the Internet and the anticipated market transitions, and on the deployment of our products by customers who depend on such continued growth and evolution.
To the extent that an economic slowdown or uncertainty and related reduction in capital spending adversely affect spending on Internet infrastructure, including spending or investment related to anticipated market transitions, we could experience material harm to our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Because of the rapid introduction of new products and changing customer requirements related to matters such as cost-effectiveness and security, we believe that there could be performance problems with Internet communications in the future, which could receive a high degree of publicity and visibility.
Because we are a large supplier of networking products, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether or not these problems are due to the performance of our own products.
Such an event could also result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock independent of direct effects on our business.
WE HAVE MADE AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO MAKE ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS
 • Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions
 • Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development intangibles
 • Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions
 • Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners
 • Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions
 • The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans
 • Issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership
 • Use a substantial portion of our cash resources, or incur debt
 • Significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition
 • Assume liabilities
 • Record goodwill and intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges
 • Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets
 • Incur tax expenses related to the effect of acquisitions on our legal structure
 • Incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses
 • Become subject to intellectual property or other litigation
Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition.
Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results.
Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to a failure to do so.
Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products.
From time to time, we have made acquisitions that resulted in charges in an individual quarter.
These charges may occur in any particular quarter, resulting in variability in our quarterly earnings.
In addition, our effective tax rate for future periods is uncertain and could be impacted by mergers and acquisitions.
Risks related to new product development also apply to acquisitions.
See the risk factors above, including the risk factor entitled “We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer” for additional information.
ENTRANCE INTO NEW OR DEVELOPING MARKETS EXPOSES US TO ADDITIONAL COMPETITION AND WILL LIKELY INCREASE DEMANDS ON OUR SERVICE AND SUPPORT OPERATIONS
As we focus on new market opportunities and key priority and growth areas, we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies.
Several of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do.
Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided in the past, especially in emerging countries.
Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future.
There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
Further, provision of greater levels of services, support and financing by us may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition.
In addition, entry into other markets has subjected and will subject us to additional risks, particularly to those markets, including the effects of general market conditions and reduced consumer confidence.
For example, as we add direct selling capabilities globally to meet changing customer demands, we will face increased legal and regulatory requirements.
INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS
There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years.
We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations.
For example, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them with the ability to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center.
Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.
We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers.
This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants.
PRODUCT QUALITY PROBLEMS COULD LEAD TO REDUCED REVENUE, GROSS MARGINS, AND NET INCOME
We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software.
Software typically contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations.
There can be no assurance that our pre-shipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects, either ones in individual products or ones that could affect numerous shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or affect gross margins.
From time to time, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs in products that we had shipped.
There can be no assurance that such remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material impact.
An inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our revenue, margins, and net income.
For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 we recorded a charge to product cost of sales of $125 million related to the expected remediation costs for anticipated failures in future periods of a widely-used component sourced from a third party which is included in several of our products, and in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 we recorded a pre-tax charge of $655 million related to the expected remediation costs for certain products sold in prior fiscal years containing memory components manufactured by a single supplier between 2005 and 2010.
DUE TO THE GLOBAL NATURE OF OUR OPERATIONS, POLITICAL OR ECONOMIC CHANGES OR OTHER FACTORS IN A SPECIFIC COUNTRY OR REGION COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 • Foreign currency exchange rates
 • Political or social unrest
 • Economic instability or weakness or natural disasters in a specific country or region, including the current economic challenges in China and global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties; instability as a result of Brexit; environmental and trade protection measures and other legal and regulatory requirements, some of which may affect our ability to import our products, to export our products from, or sell our products in various countries
 • Political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns
 • Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic
 • Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations
 • Adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on our global operations
WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND TO CREDIT EXPOSURES IN WEAKENED MARKETS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN MATERIAL LOSSES
Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States.
We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts.
Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements.
We expect demand for customer financing to continue, and recently we have been experiencing an increase in this demand as the credit markets have been impacted by the challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment, including increased demand from customers in certain emerging countries.
We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects.
Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services.
Our exposure to the credit risks relating to our financing activities described above may increase if our customers are adversely affected by a global economic downturn or periods of economic uncertainty.
Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks.
In the past, there have been significant bankruptcies among customers both on open credit and with loan or lease financing arrangements, particularly among Internet businesses and service providers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses.
There can be no assurance that additional losses will not be incurred.
Although these losses have not been material to date, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.
A portion of our sales is derived through our distributors.
These distributors are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs.
We maintain estimated accruals and allowances for such business terms.
However, distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers and therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk, because they may be more likely to lack the reserve resources to meet payment obligations.
Additionally, to the degree that turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET VALUES OF OUR PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AND IN INTEREST RATES; IMPAIRMENT OF OUR INVESTMENTS COULD HARM OUR EARNINGS
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
Our portfolio includes fixed income securities and equity investments in publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged.
If such investments suffer market price declines, as we experienced with some of our investments in the past, we may recognize in earnings the decline in the fair value of our investments below their cost basis when the decline is judged to be other than temporary.
For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital.
These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize.
We could lose our entire investment in these companies.
WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES THAT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS
Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows.
Historically, our primary exposures have related to nondollar-denominated sales in Japan, Canada, and Australia and certain nondollar-denominated operating expenses and service cost of sales in Europe, Latin America, and Asia, where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars.
Additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility.
An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies.
Currently, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and options to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables.
In addition, we periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows.
Our attempts to hedge against these risks may result in an adverse impact on our net income.
OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS MAY PROVE DIFFICULT TO ENFORCE
We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products.
Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us.
Furthermore, many key aspects of networking technology are governed by industrywide standards, which are usable by all market entrants.
In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology.
In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.
The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States.
Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the features (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled us to be successful.
WE MAY BE FOUND TO INFRINGE ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS
Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks.
Further, in the past, third parties have made infringement and similar claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition.
WE RELY ON THE AVAILABILITY OF THIRD-PARTY LICENSES
Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties.
It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products.
There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all.
The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.
OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED AND DAMAGE TO OUR REPUTATION MAY OCCUR DUE TO PRODUCTION AND SALE OF COUNTERFEIT VERSIONS OF OUR PRODUCTS
As is the case with leading products around the world, our products are subject to efforts by third parties to produce counterfeit versions of our products.
While we work diligently with law enforcement authorities in various countries to
block the manufacture of counterfeit goods and to interdict their sale, and to detect counterfeit products in customer networks, and have succeeded in prosecuting counterfeiters and their distributors, resulting in fines, imprisonment and restitution to us, there can be no guarantee that such efforts will succeed.
While counterfeiters often aim their sales at customers who might not have otherwise purchased our products due to lack of verifiability of origin and service, such counterfeit sales, to the extent they replace otherwise legitimate sales, could adversely affect our operating results.
OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED BY UNCERTAINTIES OF REGULATION OF THE INTERNET
Currently, few laws or regulations apply directly to access or commerce on the Internet.
We could be materially adversely affected by regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate.
Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using IP, encryption technology, sales or other taxes on Internet product or service sales, and access charges for Internet service providers.
The adoption of regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
CHANGES IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND TARIFFS COULD HARM OUR PROSPECTS AND FUTURE SALES
Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate, in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products.
In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers’ network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, including "net neutrality" rules to the extent they impact decisions on investment in network infrastructure.
Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers.
Additionally, in the United States, our products must comply with various requirements and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and other regulatory authorities.
In countries outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of local telecommunications and other industry authorities.
Changes in tariffs or failure by us to obtain timely approval of products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
FAILURE TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL WOULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET KEY OBJECTIVES
Our success has always depended in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel.
Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California.
Stock incentive plans are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us.
Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price or equity incentive awards, or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive program, resulting from the management of share dilution and share-based compensation expense or otherwise, may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees.
As a result of one or more of these factors, we may increase our hiring in geographic areas outside the United States, which could subject us to additional geopolitical and exchange rate risk.
The loss of services of any of our key personnel; the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future; or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions.
In addition, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that competitors have engaged in improper hiring practices.
We have received these claims in the past and may receive additional claims to this effect in the future.
ADVERSE RESOLUTION OF LITIGATION OR GOVERNMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION
We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business.
Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations.
Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict.
For example, Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities which remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $234 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.5 billion for interest, and $1.1 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of April 28, 2018.
We have completed a thorough review of the matters and believe the asserted claims against our Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and we are defending the claims vigorously.
While
we believe there is no legal basis for the alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against our Brazilian subsidiary and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any.
We do not expect a final judicial determination for several years.
An unfavorable resolution of lawsuits or governmental investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition.
For additional information regarding certain of the matters in which we are involved, see Item 1, “Legal Proceedings,” contained in Part II of this report.
CHANGES IN OUR PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS
Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by changes to domestic manufacturing deduction laws, regulations, or interpretations thereof; by expiration of or lapses in tax incentives; by transfer pricing adjustments, including the effect of acquisitions on our legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, treaties, or interpretations thereof, including changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, and the foreign tax credit rules.
Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), an international association comprised of 35 countries, including the United States, has made changes to numerous long-standing tax principles.
There can be no assurance that these changes, once adopted by countries, will not have an adverse impact on our provision for income taxes.
Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates.
Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes.
In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.
OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS ARE ESPECIALLY SUBJECT TO THE RISKS OF EARTHQUAKES, FLOODS, AND OTHER NATURAL CATASTROPHIC EVENTS
Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity.
Additionally, a certain number of our facilities are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the past.
Also certain of our suppliers and logistics centers are located in regions that have been or may be affected by earthquake, tsunami and flooding activity which in the past has disrupted, and in the future could disrupt, the flow of components and delivery of products.
A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a hurricane, volcano, or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
MAN-MADE PROBLEMS SUCH AS CYBER-ATTACKS, DATA PROTECTION BREACHES, COMPUTER VIRUSES OR TERRORISM MAY DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS, HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION, AND DAMAGE OUR REPUTATION, AND CYBER-ATTACKS OR DATA PROTECTION BREACHES ON OUR CUSTOMERS’ NETWORKS, OR IN CLOUD-BASED SERVICES PROVIDED BY OR ENABLED BY US, COULD RESULT IN CLAIMS OF LIABILITY AGAINST US, DAMAGE OUR REPUTATION OR OTHERWISE HARM OUR BUSINESS
Despite our implementation of network security measures, the products and services we sell to customers, and our servers, data centers and the cloud-based solutions on which our data, and data of our customers, suppliers and business partners are stored, are vulnerable to cyber-attacks, data protection breaches, computer viruses, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or human error.
Any such event could compromise our networks or those of our customers, and the information stored on our networks or those of our customers could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, which could subject us to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and may cause damage to our reputation.
Efforts to limit the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts may be costly to implement and meet with resistance, and may not be successful.
Breaches of network security in our customers’ networks, or in cloud-based services provided by or enabled by us, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to a vulnerability in our products or services, could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation or otherwise harm our business.
In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Likewise, events such as loss of infrastructure and utilities services such as energy, transportation, or telecommunications could have similar negative impacts.
To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.
VULNERABILITIES AND CRITICAL SECURITY DEFECTS, PRIORITIZATION DECISIONS REGARDING REMEDYING VULNERABILITIES OR SECURITY DEFECTS, FAILURE OF THIRD PARTY PROVIDERS TO REMEDY VULNERABILITIES OR SECURITY DEFECTS, OR CUSTOMERS NOT DEPLOYING SECURITY RELEASES OR DECIDING NOT TO UPGRADE PRODUCTS, SERVICES OR SOLUTIONS COULD RESULT IN CLAIMS OF LIABILITY AGAINST US, DAMAGE OUR REPUTATION OR OTHERWISE HARM OUR BUSINESS
The products and services we sell to customers, and our cloud-based solutions, inevitably contain vulnerabilities or critical security defects which have not been remedied and cannot be disclosed without compromising security.
We may also make prioritization decisions in determining which vulnerabilities or security defects to fix, and the timing of these fixes, which could result in an exploit which compromises security.
Customers also need to test security releases before they can be deployed which can delay implementation.
In addition, we rely on third-party providers of software and cloud-based service and we cannot control the rate at which they remedy vulnerabilities.
Customers may also not deploy a security release, or decide not to upgrade to the latest versions of our products, services or cloud-based solutions containing the release, leaving them vulnerable.
Vulnerabilities and critical security defects, prioritization errors in remedying vulnerabilities or security defects, failure of third-party providers to remedy vulnerabilities or security defects, or customers not deploying security releases or deciding not to upgrade products, services or solutions could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation or otherwise harm our business.
IF WE DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, WE MAY NOT REALIZE THE EXPECTED BENEFITS FROM SUCH ALLIANCES AND WE MAY EXPERIENCE INCREASED COMPETITION OR DELAYS IN PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
We have several strategic alliances with large and complex organizations and other companies with which we work to offer complementary products and services and in the past have established a joint venture to market services associated with our Cisco Unified Computing System products.
These arrangements are generally limited to specific projects, the goal of which is generally to facilitate product compatibility and adoption of industry standards.
There can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these strategic alliances or from the joint venture.
If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in industry growth.
However, alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a strategic alliance and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas.
Also, if these companies fail to perform or if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties.
Joint ventures can be difficult to manage, given the potentially different interests of joint venture partners.
OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE
Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us.
Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price.
In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies.
These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future.
Additionally, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, virtually all of whom are compensated, in part, based on the performance of our stock price.
THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL NOT BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY OUR INCURRENCE OF DEBT
As of the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $28.3 billion that mature at specific dates from calendar year 2018 through 2040.
We have also established a commercial paper program under which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $10.0 billion, and we had no commercial paper notes outstanding under this program as of April 28, 2018.
The outstanding senior unsecured notes bear fixed-rate interest payable semiannually, except $1.9 billion of the notes which bears interest at a floating rate payable quarterly.
The fair value of the long-term debt is subject to market interest rate volatility.
The instruments governing the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants applicable to us and our wholly-owned subsidiaries that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions.
In addition, we will be required to have available in the United States sufficient cash to service the interest on our debt and repay all of our notes on maturity.
There can be no assurance that our incurrence of this debt or any future debt will be a better means of providing liquidity to us than would our use of our existing cash resources.
Further, we cannot be assured that our maintenance of this indebtedness or incurrence of future indebtedness will not adversely affect our operating results or financial condition.
In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities, as well as the terms upon which we may borrow under our commercial paper program or future debt issuances.
