fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying consolidated financial statements of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Company”) are unaudited and have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the opinion of management, these statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations for the interim periods.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the year ending December 31, 2018.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 and all the related amendments ("new revenue standard" or "ASC 606") using the modified retrospective method to those contracts not yet completed as of January 1, 2018.
As a result, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of approximately $1.0 million as of January 1, 2018.
The Company expects the impact of the adoption of the new standard to be immaterial to net income on an ongoing basis.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold.
Remaining performance obligations related to ASC 606 represent the aggregate transaction price allocated to performance obligations with an original contract term greater than one year which are fully or partially unsatisfied at the end of the period.
While the remaining performance obligation disclosure is similar in concept to backlog, the definition of remaining performance obligations excludes contracts that provide the customer with the right to cancel or terminate for convenience with no substantial penalty, even if historical experience indicates the likelihood of cancellation or termination is remote.
The Company has elected to exclude contracts with customers with an original term of one year or less from remaining performance obligations while these contracts are included within backlog.
The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) which allows employees to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock at 85 percent of the fair market value at the lower of either the date of enrollment or the purchase date.


item2.txt
Excluding the divestiture of the Consumer and SMB Security businesses, we currently expect total annual revenue for 2018 to be higher than 2017 revenue and reported revenue including the divested businesses to be about flat or slightly down when compared to prior year.
Cost of goods sold for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were $220.2 million and $441.9 million, compared to cost of goods sold for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 of $227.4 million and $442.9 million, respectively.
The decrease in cost of goods sold for the three and six month periods is primarily related to favorable product mix in 2018.
Gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $450.5 million compared to $398.1 million for the six month period ended June 30, 2017.
Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, increased from 47.6 percent in the second quarter of 2017 to 51.4 percent in the second quarter of 2018 and increased from 47.3 percent for the six months ended June 30, 2017 to 50.5 percent during the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Research and development expenses for the second quarter of 2018 totaled $46.4 million, compared to $43.0 million in the second quarter of 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance the long-term competitiveness of the Company.
We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales.
Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs.
Our industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets.
To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future.
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future.
From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits concerning intellectual property, torts, contracts, shareholder litigation, administrative and regulatory proceedings and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to our results of operations and may limit our ability to engage in our business activities.


