The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
We typically estimate progress towards completion based on cost incurred or direct labor incurred.
We have one reportable segment.
Offices or divisions within an agency or department of the U.S. government may directly, or through a prime contractor, use our services as a separate customer as long as the customer has independent decision-making and contracting authority within its organization.
The following tables disclose revenue (in thousands) by contract type, customer, prime or subcontractor and geography for the periods presented.
are primarily due from the U.S. government.
The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our estimate for exposure to compliance, contractual issues and bad debts related to prime contractors.As of February 15, 2019, all agencies of the U.S. federal government have funding through appropriations through Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019.
A number of federal civilian agencies, including the Departments of Homeland Security and State operated under a Continuing Resolution through late December and then endured a 35-day lapse in funding prior to receiving appropriations in mid-February.
We expect future appropriations to be debated with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act.
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to reduced bid and proposal spending and amortization of acquisition intangibles offset by increased spending on infrastructure.
We expect interest expense to increase for the remainder of 2019 due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of KGS.