fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in the annual financial statements, prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations.
It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled.
The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time.
For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered.
We typically use a cost-based input method to measure progress.
Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses.
Essentially, all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements.
Contract modifications impact performance obligations when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations.


item2.txt
•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; and •Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts.
However, a number of federal civilian agencies, including the Departments of Homeland Security and State, have been funded under a Continuing Resolution (CR) at 2018 funding levels through early December 2018.
Appropriations for the Department of Defense include near term expansions that aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors.
We expect future appropriations to be debated with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act.
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenues from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and acquisitions.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 39% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 38% for the same period in 2017.
For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4.
Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
We expect cost of services as a percentage of revenues to remain steady or slightly increase for the remainder of 2018 due to the potential for higher levels of materials in the last quarter of the year.
The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure.
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



