fls.txt
All statements and assumptions contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that do not relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements."


item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in the annual financial statements, prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition.
We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled.
The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract.
of the performance obligation.
Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time.
Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses.
Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized.
Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements.
Contract modifications impact performance obligation when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified.
For time-and-materials contracts, revenue was recognized to the extent of billable rates times hours delivered plus materials and other reimbursable costs incurred.


item2.txt
•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; and •Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts.
The U.S. GFY 2018 appropriations and U.S. GFY 2019 budget request include near term expansions of budgets for the Department of Defense aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, homeland and border security, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors.
However, U.S. GFY 2019 and future years funding appropriations continue to be debated in normal course by Congress with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act (BCA).
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, other direct costs, which include subcontractors as well as equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 37% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure.
Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Our exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest rates for borrowing under our revolving credit facility.


item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



