fls.txt
All statements and assumptions contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that do not relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements."


item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
For contracts that do not meet the criteria to measure performance as a right to invoice under the series guidance, we utilize an Estimate at Completion process to measure progress toward completion.
We typically estimate progress towards completion based on cost incurred or direct labor incurred.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $9.0 million and $8.8 million, respectively.
We have one reportable segment.
Offices or divisions within an agency or department of the U.S. government may directly, or through a prime contractor, use our services as a separate customer as long as the customer has independent decision-making and contracting authority within its organization.
The following tables disclose revenue (in thousands) by contract type, customer, prime or subcontractor and geography for the periods presented.
risk as billed receivables and unbilled receivables are primarily due from the U.S. government.
The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our estimate for exposure due to compliance, contractual issues and bad debts related to prime contractors.
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives.
Our operating leases are primarily made up of real estate.
Our variable lease payments do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments.


item2.txt
•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts; •Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; •Increased exposure to risks associated with conducting business internationally.
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
As such, our business is impacted by the overall U.S. government budget and our ability to match our capabilities and offerings to the U.S. government's spending priorities.
In August 2019, Congress passed and the president signed a new two-year budget deal, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019.
The GFY 2020 and 2021 budgets include increases for areas supporting national security.
Despite the passage of a two year budget, Congress has not yet passed full year appropriations and as of October 1st, began operating under a Continuing Resolution (CR).
If Congress is unable to approve appropriations by November 21st, the U.S. Government and its agencies may be subjected to funding restrictions through a CR or, if there is a failure to pass interim funding, a government shutdown.
This change has caused a net increase in the reported cost of services and a net decrease in reported general and administrative expenses in 2019 as compared to 2018; however, total operating costs were not affected by this change.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 46% for both the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
The primary driver of the increase in our effective tax rate was the impact of discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2018, which were more favorable than discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2019.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues was revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisitions, which was offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowing on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisitions of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS) and H2M Group (H2M).


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Our exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest rates for borrowing under our revolving credit facility.


item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



