fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in the annual financial statements, prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled.
The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress.
Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses.
Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized.
Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements.
Contract modifications impact performance obligation when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified.
The risks and opportunities include management’s judgment about the ability and cost to achieve the contract milestones and other technical contract requirements.
For performance-based fees under cost-reimbursable contracts, we recognized the relevant portion of the expected fee to be awarded by the customer at the time such fee can be reasonably estimated, based on factors such as our prior award experience and communications with the customer regarding performance, or upon approval by the customer.


item2.txt
•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; and •Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts.
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
The U.S. Government fiscal year (GFY) 2018 appropriations and U.S. GFY 2019 budget request include near term expansions of budgets for the Department of Defense aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, homeland and border security, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors.
However, U.S. GFY 2019 and future years funding appropriations continue to be debated in normal course by Congress with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act (BCA).
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenues from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and acquisitions.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017.
Our effective income tax rates were 28% and 37% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We expect cost of services as a percentage of revenues to slightly increase for the remainder of 2018 due to typically higher levels of materials in the second half of the year.
The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure.
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



