fls.txt
All statements and assumptions contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that do not relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements."


item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
We typically estimate progress towards completion based on cost incurred or direct labor incurred.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $3.5 million and $4.3 million, respectively.
We have one reportable segment.
Offices or divisions within an agency or department of the U.S. government may directly, or through a prime contractor, use our services as a separate customer as long as the customer has independent decision-making and contracting authority within its organization.
The following tables disclose revenue (in thousands) by contract type, customer, prime or subcontractor and geography for the periods presented.
The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our estimate for exposure due to compliance, contractual issues and bad debts related to prime contractors.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $22.5 million.
Most prominent among the changes in ASC 842 is the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases.
Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred from our lease payments.
In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term.
For finance leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability by using the effective interest rate method.


item2.txt
•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts; •Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; •Increased exposure to risks associated with conducting business internationally.
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
As of February 15, 2019, all agencies of the U.S. federal government have funding through appropriations through Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019.
On July 22, 2019, the President and Congressional leadership announced an agreement on a new two-year budget deal, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019.
Both the budget deal and appropriations legislation are subject to passage by Congress.
If Congress is unable to approve appropriations by October 1st, the U.S. Government and its agencies may be subjected to funding restrictions through a Continuing Resolution or, if there is a failure to pass interim funding, potentially a government shutdown.
This change has caused a net increase in the reported cost of services and a net decrease in reported general and administrative expenses in 2019 as compared to 2018; however, total operating costs were not affected by this change.
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisition, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018.
Our effective income tax rates were 26% and 28% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Our exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest rates for borrowing under our revolving credit facility.


item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



