fls.txt



item1.txt



item2.txt
In October 2015, Corning announced a strategy and capital allocation framework (the “Framework”) that reflects the Company’s financial and operational strengths, as well as its ongoing commitment to increasing shareholder value.
Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $2.8 billion, compared to $2.5 billion in the same period in 2018.
The increase was led by the Optical Communications segment, which increased $178 million, due to higher sales of carrier network products in North America, an increase in sales of enterprise network products from growth in hyper-scale data centers and sales from our acquisition of 3M’s Communication Markets Division (“CMD”).
Net sales in the Display Technologies segment increased by $73 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, with volumes exceeding the display glass market’s growth and more than offsetting price declines.
The Specialty Materials segment net sales increased by $31 million resulting from strong demand for Gorilla Glass and Advanced Optics products.
Net sales for Environmental Technologies increased $40 million driven primarily by sales growth of gas particulate filters.
Life Sciences sales increased by $11 million.
·    Higher segment net income in all our business segments and All Other segment, up $68 million.
Diluted earnings per share increased by $1.27 per share when compared to the first quarter of 2018, driven by the increase in net income described above, coupled with the repurchase of 55.5 million shares of common stock over the last twelve months.
The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, related to the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated net income in the three months ended March 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018.
In the Optical Communications segment, we expect sales to increase approximately ten percent, including the impact of a full year of sales from the acquisition of CMD.
We expect approximately ten percent or slightly higher sales growth in our Environmental Technologies segment.
We anticipate low to mid-single digit percentage growth in sales for the Life Sciences segment.
·    An increase of $11 million in the Life Sciences segment, driven by higher sales in all product categories.
Movements in foreign exchange rates increased Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $25 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the prior year.
·    An increase of $25 million in the Optical Communications segment, driven largely by the acquisition of CMD in June 2018.
Equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $14 million, driven by the absence of a gain recorded in the first quarter of 2018 resulting from a legal settlement.
The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated income before income taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2019 when compared to the same periods in 2018.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 comprehensive income increased by $667 million when compared to the same period in 2018, due to an increase in net income of $1.1 billion.
The increase in net income was offset by the negative impacts of the change in foreign currency translation gains and losses of $374 million, driven primarily by the Japanese yen and the Korean won, and $53 million related to the adoption of the new standard for reclassification of stranded tax effects in AOCI.
In managing the Company and assessing our financial performance, we adjust certain measures provided by our consolidated financial statements to exclude specific items to report core performance measures.
These items include gains and losses on our translated earnings contracts, acquisition-related costs, certain discrete tax items, restructuring and restructuring-related charges, certain litigation-related expenses, pension mark-to-market adjustments and other items which do not reflect on-going operating results of the Company or our equity affiliates.
Corning utilizes constant currency reporting for our Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments for the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan and new Taiwan dollar currencies.
Effective January 1, 2019, Corning also began using constant currency reporting for our Environmental Technologies and Life Sciences segments for the euro, Japanese yen and Chinese yuan.
The Company believes that the use of constant currency reporting allows investors to understand our results without the volatility of currency fluctuations, and reflects the underlying economics of the translated earnings contracts used to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our earnings and cash flows.
In the three months ended March 31, 2019, we generated core earnings of $365 million, or $0.40 per share, compared to core earnings generated in the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $299 million, or $0.31 per share.


item4.txt



part2.txt
© 2019 Corning Incorporated.
All Rights Reserved.


