In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, uncertain events or assumptions, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements.See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.In October 2015, Corning announced a strategy and capital allocation framework (the “Framework”) that reflects the Company’s financial and operational strengths, as well as its ongoing commitment to increasing shareholder value.
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
Net sales in the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $2,500 million, compared to $2,375 million in the same period in 2017.
The increase was driven by higher sales in the Optical Communications, Environmental Technologies and Life Sciences segments, up $68 million, $47 million and $22 million, respectively.
The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated net loss in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.
We believe 2018 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework, and anticipate that segment net sales will grow to approximately $11 billion.
In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with year-over-year declines reaching mid-single digits, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns.
We anticipate Corning’s LCD glass volume will grow faster than the expected LCD glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
In the Optical Communications segment, we expect sales to increase by about 10%, excluding any contribution from the pending acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division, driven by strong demand from carrier and enterprise network customers, supported by our planned capacity additions.
We expect sales growth of approximately 10% in our Environmental Technologies segment, driven by continued strength in automotive product sales, on-going improvements in the heavy-duty diesel market and from the commercial launch of gas-particulate filters.
We anticipate mid-single digit growth in the Life Sciences segment.
·    An increase of $22 million in the Life Sciences segment, driven by higher sales in North America and China.
Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $87 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
·    An increase of $18 million in corporate spending primarily related to new information technology platforms and outside legal fees.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly in the first quarter, when compared to the same period last year.
Equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $41 million, driven largely by the absence of a $46 million gain recorded in the first quarter of 2017 resulting from the modification of long-term sales agreements with a customer of HSG.Environmental Litigation.