fls.txt



item1.txt



item2.txt
In October 2015, Corning announced a strategy and capital allocation framework (the “Framework”) that reflects the Company’s financial and operational strengths, as well as its ongoing commitment to increasing shareholder value.
Net sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $3.0 billion and $8.3 billion, compared to $2.6 billion and $7.5 billion, respectively, for the same periods in 2017, driven by an increase in net sales in all segments.
The increase in both periods was led by the Optical Communications segment, which increased $200 million and $409 million, respectively, due to higher sales of carrier network products in North America and Europe, an increase in sales of enterprise network products from growth in data centers and sales from 3M’s Communications Market Division which we acquired in June.
Net sales in the Display Technologies segment increased by $57 million and $23 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, with volumes exceeding the display glass market’s strong growth and more than offsetting price declines.
The Specialty Materials segment net sales increased by $86 million and $70 million, respectively, resulting from strong demand for Gorilla Glass products in support of new product releases.
Net sales for Environmental Technologies increased $54 million and $155 million, respectively, driven by growth in all product categories.
Life Sciences sales increased by $8 million and $54 million, respectively, driven by higher sales across all product lines.
·    Lower segment net income in the All Other segment, down $8 million, resulting from continued investment in product development.
Diluted earnings per share increased by $0.28 per share, or 72%, when compared to the third quarter of 2017, driven by the increase in net income described above, coupled with the repurchase of 76 million shares of common stock over the last twelve months.
·    An increase in the translated earnings contract gains of $174 million.
Diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.07 per share, or 8%, when compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017, driven by the decrease in net income described above, coupled with the repurchase of 76 million shares of common stock over the last twelve months.
The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated net income in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the same periods in 2017.
We believe 2018 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework, and anticipate that segment net sales will exceed $11.3 billion.
For the full year, we anticipate Corning’s glass volume will grow faster than the expected display glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
In the Optical Communications segment, we expect sales to increase in the high-teen percentage range, including approximately $200 million from the acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division.
We expect sales growth in the mid-teen percentage range in our Environmental Technologies segment, driven by continued strength in automotive product sales, on-going improvements in the heavy-duty diesel market and the commercial launch of gas-particulate filters.
Movements in foreign exchange rates increased Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
Movements in foreign exchange rates decreased Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $42 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, gross margin increased by $182 million, or 17%, and $271 million, or 9%, respectively, primarily driven by an increase in sales across all operating segments.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased by 1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Gross margin as a percentage of sales declined by 1% for the year to date period driven by glass price declines in the high-single digits in percentage terms, combined with spending for capacity expansions in the Display Technologies and Optical Communications segments.
·    Increased acquisition related costs, up $21 million.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, research, development and engineering expenses increased by $105 million, or 17%, when compared to the same period last year, driven by higher costs associated with new product launches and our emerging businesses.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly when compared to the same period last year.
In the third quarter ending September 30, 2018, equity in earnings of affiliated companies remain relatively consistent with the prior year.
In the first three quarters of 2018, equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $46 million, driven by the absence of a $46 million gain recorded in the first quarter of 2017 resulting from the modification of long-term sales agreements with a customer of HSG.
The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated income before income taxes in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the same periods in 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt
© 2018 Corning Incorporated.
All Rights Reserved.


