Item 1. Financial Statements
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
2. Use of Estimates
Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income (loss) per common share reflects the maximum dilution that would have resulted from the assumed exercise and share repurchase related to dilutive stock options and is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the assumed weighted average number of common shares outstanding.
We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.
Non-vested restricted stock awards of 168,000 and 169,000 shares were excluded from the diluted loss per share calculation for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively, as there was a net loss and their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. 
Finished goods includes inventory that has been shipped, but for which all revenue recognition criteria has not been met, of approximately $0.2 million and $0.4 million as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Total inventory balances in the table above are shown net of reserves for obsolescence of approximately $3.4 million and $3.1 million as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
8. Pension and Retirement Plans
The Company has defined benefit and defined contribution plans in the United Kingdom, Germany and the U.S. In the United Kingdom and Germany, the Company provides defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for some of its employees. In the U.S., the Company provides benefits through supplemental retirement plans to certain former employees. The U.S. supplemental retirement plans have life insurance policies which are not plan assets but were purchased by the Company as a vehicle to fund the costs of the plan. The Company also provides for officer death benefits through post-retirement plans to certain officers of the Company in the U.S. All of the Company’s defined benefit plans are closed to newly hired employees and have been since September 2009.
The Company's pension plan in the United Kingdom is the only plan with plan assets. The plan assets consist of an investment in a commingled fund which in turn comprises a diversified mix of assets including corporate equity securities, government securities and corporate debt securities.
The following tables present certain operating segment information for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
The following table lists customers from which the Company derived revenues in excess of 10% of total revenues for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, and 2017.
In addition, accounts receivable from Customer A totaled approximately $2.7 million, or 12%, and approximately $2.4 million, or 9%, of total consolidated accounts receivable as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. Accounts receivable from Customer B totaled approximately $6.6 million, or 29%, and approximately $3.9 million, or 14%, of total consolidated accounts receivable as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. 
One additional customer, C, accounted for accounts receivable of 10% or more, but did not account for revenue of 10% or more. Accounts receivable from customer C totaled approximately $2.7 million, or 12%, of consolidated accounts receivable as of March 31, 2018. We believe that the Company is not exposed to any significant credit risk with respect to the 
accounts receivable with these customers as of March 31, 2018. No other customers accounted for 10% or more of total consolidated accounts receivable as of March 31, 2018. 
On December 19, 2017, the Company's board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.11 per share which was paid on January 16, 2018 to shareholders of record as of December 29, 2017, the record date. 
On February 12, 2018, the Company's board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.11 per share which was paid on March 16, 2018 to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2018, the record date. 
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective. The new standard is effective for the Company on October 1, 2018, and it does not plan to early adopt this ASU. The standard outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within a contract are satisfied. The standard also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. We are utilizing a bottom-up approach to analyze the standard's impact on our contract portfolio, comparing our historical accounting policies and practices, and identifying potential differences from applying the requirements of the new standard to our contracts. While this assessment continues, we have not yet completed our determination of the impacts of the standard or the effect of these impacts on our consolidated financial statements. The Company has selected the modified retrospective approach as its transition method. Because the new standard will impact our business processes, systems and controls, we are developing a comprehensive change management project plan to guide the implementation.
In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Inventory (Topic 330) Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, which requires entities to measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value, except for inventory measured using last-in, first-out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and requires prospective application, with early adoption permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The Company has not yet assessed the potential impact of implementing this ASU on our consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. This ASU requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and lease liability for most lease arrangements. The new standard is effective for the Company on October 1, 2019. The standard mandates a modified retrospective transition method for all entities and early adoption is permitted. The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. This ASU will reduce diversity in practice for classifying cash payments and receipts in the statement of cash flows for a number of common transactions. It will also clarify when identifiable cash flows should be separated versus classified based on their predominant source or use. This ASU is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. If an entity early adopts the amendments in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. An entity that elects early adoption must adopt all of the amendments in the same period. The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. This ASU requires the seller and buyer to recognize at the transaction date the current and deferred income tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers (except transfers of inventory). Under current GAAP, the seller and buyer defer the consolidated tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer from the period of the transfer to a future period when the asset is transferred out of the consolidated group, or otherwise affects consolidated earnings. This standard will cause volatility in companies’ effective tax rates, particularly for those that transfer intangible assets to foreign subsidiaries. For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual and interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. An entity may early adopt the standard but only at the beginning of an annual period for which it has not issued or made available for issuance financial statements (interim or annual). The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-16 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In January 2017, FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, “Business Combinations Clarifying the Definition of a Business" (Topic 805) (“ASU No. 2017-01”). ASU 2017-01 provides a framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities is a business. ASU 2017-01 provides more consistency in applying the business combination guidance, reduces the costs of application, and makes the definition of a business more operable. ASU 2017-01 is effective for interim and annual periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the impact ASU 2017-01 will have on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and disclosures.
