 Item 1. Financial Statements  
 Unless otherwise noted, discussion within these notes to the consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations. Refer to Note 12 for additional information on discontinued operations.  
 2. Use of Estimates  
 We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.  
timing. The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer. We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent. Under gross sales recognition, the entire selling price is recorded in revenue and our cost to the third-party service provider or vendor is recorded in cost of goods sold. Under net sales recognition, the cost to the third-party service provider or vendor is recorded as a reduction to revenue resulting in net sales equal to the gross profit on the transaction. Third-party service contracts are sold in different combinations with hardware, software, and services. We have determined the third-party services contracts are a single performance obligation in each sale. When the Company is an agent, revenue is typically recorded at a point in time. When the Company is the principal, revenue is recognized over the contract term.  
 Professional services generally include implementation, installation, and training services. Professional services are considered a series of distinct services that form one performance obligation and revenue is recognized over time as services are performed.  
 Revenue generated from managed services is recognized over the term of the contract. Certain managed services contracts include financing of hardware and software. Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement. The lease components include the hardware and software, which are subject to ASC 840. The non-lease component includes the managed services and is subject to ASC 606.  
 Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts. Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on the date of customer shipment. Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty. Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping. Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.  
 Variable consideration is immaterial. Any products sold with right to return exists with the manufacturer. Managed service contracts contain the right to refund if canceled within 30 days of inception. Any products with a standard warranty are treated as a warranty obligation under ASC 460, Guarantees.  
 HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.  
 Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support. Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.  
 TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software. Financing revenue is recognized in accordance with ASC 840, Leases. Financing revenue is recorded in revenue as equipment leasing and is part of the Company’s operations.  
 The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services. Only the hours that depict the Company’s performance toward satisfying a performance obligation are used for progress. An estimate for professional services is made at the beginning of each contract based on prior experience and monitored throughout the services. This method is most appropriate as it depicts the measure of progress towards satisfaction of the performance obligation.  
 When product and services are sold together, the allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation is calculated using a budgeted cost-plus margin approach. Due to the complex nature of these contracts, there is significant judgment in allocating the transaction price. These estimates are periodically reviewed by project managers, engineers, and other staff involved to ensure estimates are appropriate. For items sold separately, including hardware, software, professional services, maintenance contracts, other services, and third-party service contracts, there is no allocation performed as there is one performance obligation.  
 When the Company has performed work but does not have an unconditional right to payment, a contract asset is recorded. When the Company has the right to bill a customer, accounts receivable is recorded as an unconditional right exists. Current contract assets were $0.6 million and $1.1 million as of June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively. The current portion is recorded in other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets. There were no non-current contract assets as of June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018. The difference in the balances is due to regular timing differences between when work is performed and having an unconditional right to payment.  
 Contract liabilities arise when payment is received before the Company transfers a good or service to the customer. Current contract liabilities were $0.8 million and $0.9 million as of June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively. The current portion of contract liabilities is recorded in deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets. There were no non-current contract liabilities as of June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018. Revenue recognized for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 that was included in contract liabilities as of the beginning of the period was $0.7 million.  
 Projects are typically billed upon completion or at certain milestones. Product and services are typically billed when shipped or as services are being performed. Payment terms are typically 30 days to pay in full except in Europe where it could be up to 90 days. Most of the Company’s contracts are less than one year. As a practical expedient, the Company has elected not to adjust the amount of consideration for effects of a significant financing component when it is anticipated the promised good or service will be transferred and the subsequent payment will be one year or less. The Company elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that have an original expected duration of one year or less. This is due to a low amount of performance obligations less than one year being unsatisfied at each period end. Most of these contracts are related to product sales.  
 4. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock  
 Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income (loss) per common share reflects the maximum dilution that would have resulted from the assumed exercise and share repurchase related to dilutive stock options and is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the assumed weighted average number of common shares outstanding.  
 We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.  
 Finished goods includes inventory that has been shipped, but for which all revenue recognition criteria has not been met, of approximately $0.8 million and $0.7 million as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.  
 Total inventory balances in the table above are shown net of reserves for obsolescence of approximately $3.7 million and $3.3 million as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.  
 8. Pension and Retirement Plans  
 The Company’s continuing operations has defined benefit and defined contribution plans in the U.K. and in the U.S. The Company’s discontinued operations had a defined benefit and defined contribution plan in Germany, which was assumed by Reply AG in its acquisition of the Company’s operations in Germany (see Note 12 below). In the U.K., the Company provides defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for some of its employees. In the U.S., the Company provides benefits through supplemental retirement plans to certain former employees. The U.S. supplemental retirement plans have life insurance policies which are not plan assets but were purchased by the Company as a vehicle to fund the costs of the plan. The Company also provides for officer death benefits through post-retirement plans to certain officers of the Company in the U.S. All of the Company’s defined benefit plans are closed to newly hired employees and have been since September 2009.  
 The Company’s pension plan in the U.K. is the only plan with plan assets. The plan assets consist of an investment in a commingled fund which in turn comprises a diversified mix of assets including corporate equity securities, government securities and corporate debt securities.  
 The following table lists customers from which the Company derived revenues in excess of 10% of total revenues from continuing operations for three and nine months ended June 30, 2019.  
 Accounts receivable from Customers A and B were less than 10% of total consolidated accounts receivable as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018. There were no customers that were 10% or more of total consolidated accounts receivable as of June 30, 2019. We believe that the Company is not exposed to any significant credit risk with respect to the accounts receivable with these customers as of June 30, 2019.  
 On February 12, 2019, the Company’s board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.15 per share which was paid on March 14, 2019 to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2019, the record date.  
 On May 8, 2019, the Company’s board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.15 per share which was paid on June 14, 2019 to shareholders of record as of May 31, 2019, the record date.  
 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016‑15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. This ASU will reduce diversity in practice for classifying cash payments and receipts in the statement of cash flows for a number of common transactions. It will also clarify when identifiable cash flows should be separated versus classified based on their predominant source or use. This ASU is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Beginning October 1, 2018, the Company adopted the ASU and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
 In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016‑16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. This ASU requires the seller and buyer to recognize at the transaction date the current and deferred income tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers (except transfers of inventory). Under current GAAP, the seller and buyer defer the consolidated tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer from the period of the transfer to a future period when the asset is transferred out of the consolidated group, or otherwise affects consolidated earnings. This standard will cause volatility in companies’ effective tax rates, particularly for those that transfer intangible assets to foreign subsidiaries. For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual and interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. Beginning October 1, 2018, the Company adopted the ASU and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016‑02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. This ASU requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and lease liability for most lease arrangements. The new standard is effective for the Company on October 1, 2019. The standard mandates a modified retrospective transition method for all entities and early adoption is permitted. The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016‑02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.  
 In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018‑07, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. Under this ASU companies will no longer be required to value non-employee awards differently from employee awards, but the accounting remains different for attribution and a contractual term election for valuing nonemployee equity share options. Equity-classified awards to nonemployees will now be measured at the grant date using fair value of the equity instruments the company is obligated to issue and recognition is associated with the probable outcome. Awards are subsequently measured using stock compensation guidance unless they are modified after the nonemployee stops providing goods or services. Existing disclosure requirements within the stock compensation guidance also apply to nonemployee awards. For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2018‑07 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.  
 12. Discontinued Operations of TS Segment  
 On July 31, 2018, CSPi LTD, a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, completed its sale of all of the outstanding stock of Modcomp GmbH, to Reply AG, an affiliate of Reply SpA, a holding company for a worldwide group of companies, pursuant to the terms of a Share Purchase and Assignment Agreement (the “Share Purchase Agreement”) dated June 27, 2018. Modcomp GmbH, dba CSPI GmbH, through itself and its wholly owned subsidiaries, provided managed security services to customers primarily in Germany.  
 Upon the closing of the Share Purchase Agreement, Reply AG paid to CSPI total cash at closing of approximately $14.4 million, which consisted of the original purchase price of $11.7 million plus an adjustment at closing for Net Cash (as defined in the Share Purchase Agreement) of approximately $2.7 million. An additional €400 thousand is included in escrow and will be recorded if and when received by the Company. Accordingly, CSPi determined that the assets and liabilities of this reportable segment met the discontinued operations criteria in U.S. GAAP in the year ended September 30, 2018. The gain recorded due to the sale of all the stock of Modcomp GmbH was approximately $16.8 million. No income taxes were provided as the transaction was a tax-free exchange in the U.K. As such, Modcomp GmbH’s results have been recorded as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.  
