item1.txt
We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers.
Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April.
We derive revenue from the sale of packaged software products, software subscriptions, hosted services, payroll services, merchant payment processing services, financial supplies and hardware.
We enter into contracts with customers that include promises to transfer various products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
Our desktop offerings consist of our QuickBooks Desktop products, which include both packaged software products and software subscriptions, our consumer and professional tax desktop products, which include TurboTax, Lacerte and ProSeries, our desktop payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our desktop offerings.
Our consumer and professional tax desktop products include an on-premise tax software license, related tax form updates, electronic filing service and connected services.
Our desktop payroll products are sold as software subscriptions and include a term software license with a stand-ready obligation to maintain compliance with current payroll tax laws, support and connected services.
We offer merchant payment processing services as a separately paid connected service for our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products and software subscriptions, and revenue is recognized as the services are provided to the customers.
Our online offerings include our TurboTax Online products, ProConnect Tax Online products, QuickBooks Online products, online payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our online offerings.
Revenue from the sale of our financial supplies, such as printed check stock, and hardware, such as retail point-of-sale equipment and credit card readers for mobile phones, is recognized when control is transferred to the customer which is generally when the products are shipped.
Our contracts with customers include promises to transfer various products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct performance obligations.
Our consumer and professional tax desktop products include an on-premise tax software license and related tax form updates that are recognized as the forms and updates are delivered.
Refunds are estimated based on historical experience and current business and economic indicators and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of any incremental revenue will not occur.
This standard also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments.
Our consumer and professional tax desktop solutions include a desktop tax preparation software license, tax form updates, electronic filing and connected services.
We recognize revenue for the desktop tax preparation software license and related tax form updates as the forms and updates are delivered and recognize revenue for our electronic filing and connected services as those services are provided.
Additionally, the adoption of the standard resulted in the recognition of additional revenue and a decrease in the income tax benefit, primarily due to the net change in revenue recognition for our QuickBooks Desktop and professional tax desktop solutions.
Leases - In February 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” This standard amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
While we continue to evaluate the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2016-02 on our consolidated financial statements, we expect that the real estate and equipment leases designated as operating leases as discussed in Note 9 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018 will be recognized as right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets upon adoption.
Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018 have been restated to reflect the full retrospective application of ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” See Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Accounting Standards Recently Adopted,” for more information.
In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers.
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models and monetization strategies, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses.
In addition, we may not be able to monetize our free offerings if other providers of free offerings provide features that we do not offer and customers who have formerly paid for Intuit’s products and services may elect to use our competitors’ free offerings instead.
Our consumer tax business also faces significant competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities proposing revenue raising strategies that involve developing and providing government tax software or other government return preparation systems at public expense.
Our consumer and professional tax businesses depend significantly on revenue from customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services.
If we are not able to develop and clearly demonstrate the value of new or upgraded products or services to our customers, or effectively utilize our customers’ data, our revenues may be harmed.
In addition, as we continue to introduce and expand our new business models, including offerings that are free to end users, we may be unsuccessful in monetizing or increasing customer adoption of these offerings or our risk profile may change, resulting in loss of revenue.
If we are slow to develop products and technologies that are compatible with these alternative devices, or if our competitors are able to achieve those results more quickly than us, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services, which could adversely affect our business.
We host, collect, use and retain large amounts of sensitive and personal customer and employee data, including credit card information, tax return information, bank account numbers, login credentials and passwords, personal and business financial data and transactions data, social security numbers and payroll information, as well as our confidential, nonpublic business information.
Our technologies, systems, and networks have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs, and other cybersecurity incidents that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, use, loss or destruction of our customers’ or employees’ sensitive and personal data, or Intuit's sensitive business data or cause temporary or sustained unavailability of our software and systems.
Such customers’ login credentials may be stolen from products offered by third party service providers unrelated to us and the stolen identity information may be used by a malicious third party to access our products, which could result in disclosure of confidential information.
If the global cybersecurity environment worsens, and there are increased instances of security breaches of third-party offerings where consumers’ data and sensitive information is compromised, consumers may be less willing to use online offerings, particularly offerings like ours in which customers often share sensitive financial data.
Even if our products are not affected directly by such incidents, they could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services or lead customers to cease using online and connected software products to transact financial business altogether.
If we cannot adequately combat such fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our tax offerings, governmental authorities may refuse to allow us to continue to offer such services, which could include federal or state tax authorities refusing to allow us to process our customers’ tax returns electronically, resulting in a significant adverse impact on our earnings and revenue.
As fraudulent activities become more pervasive and increasingly sophisticated, and fraud detection and prevention measures must become correspondingly more complex to combat them across the various industries in which we operate, we may implement risk control mechanisms that could make it more difficult for legitimate customers to obtain and use our products, which could result in lost revenue and negatively impact our earnings.
If we are unable to effectively manage our systems and processes, or if there is an error in our products, we may be unable to process customer data in an accurate, reliable and timely manner, which may harm our reputation, the willingness of customers to use our products, and our financial results.
As we continue to grow our online services, we become more dependent on the continuing operation and availability of our information technology and communications systems and those of our external service providers, including, for example, third-party Internet-based or cloud computing services.
If AWS is unavailable to us for any reason, our customers may not be able to access certain of our cloud products or features, which could significantly impact our operations, business, and financial results.
We face significant risks in maintaining adequate service levels during these peak periods when we derive a substantial portion of our overall revenue from the tax businesses.
Any interruptions in our online tax preparation or electronic filing service at any time during the tax season, particularly during a peak period, could result in significantly decreased revenue, lost customers, unexpected refunds of customer charges, negative publicity and increased operating costs, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If macroeconomic conditions or other factors cause any of these institutions to fail, consolidate, stop providing certain services or institute cost-cutting efforts, our business and financial results may suffer and we may be unable to offer those services to our customers.
Our tax preparation software product development cycle is particularly challenging due to the need to incorporate unpredictable and potentially late tax law and tax form changes each year and because our customers expect high levels of accuracy and a timely launch of these products to prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing deadline.
The complexity of the tax laws on which our products are based may also make it difficult for us to consistently deliver offerings that contain the features, functionality and level of accuracy that our customers expect.
The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that affect the Company’s activities, including, without limitation, areas of labor, advertising, tax, financial services, data privacy and security, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, intellectual property ownership and infringement, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety.
Complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulation regarding privacy and data protection could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations or otherwise harm our business.
Regulations related to the provision of online services is evolving as federal, state and foreign governments continue to adopt new, or modify existing laws and regulations addressing data privacy and the collection, processing, storage, transfer and use of data.
Each of these privacy, security and data protection laws and regulations could impose significant limitations, require changes to our business, require notification to customers or workers of a security breach, restrict our use or storage of personal information, or cause changes in customer purchasing behavior which may make our business more costly, less efficient or impossible to conduct, and may require us to modify our current or future products or services, which may make customers less likely to purchase our products and may harm our future financial results.


item2.txt
Net income increased $192 million or 16% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the increase in operating income described above, and a lower effective tax rate in the fiscal 2019 period, as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (2017 Tax Act).
Net income increased $234 million or 17% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 due to the increase in operating income described above, and a lower effective tax rate in the fiscal 2019 period, as a result of the 2017 Tax Act. See “Non-Operating Income and Expenses - Income Taxes” later in this Item 2 for more information.
Online Ecosystem revenue increased 38% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 39% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same periods of fiscal 2018.
Online Services revenue increased 33% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 36% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 primarily due to customer growth in online payroll and payments and an increase in revenue from other online services.
Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased 4% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 primarily driven by customer growth in our QuickBooks Enterprise, payroll, and payments offerings.
Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased 1% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared with the same period of fiscal 2018, primarily due to an increase in license revenue for our QuickBooks Enterprise offering and an increase in revenue from our payroll and payments offerings as a result of customer growth during the period.
Total Consumer segment revenue increased $262 million or 11% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018, due to a shift in mix to our higher end product offerings, a 5% growth in TurboTax federal units, and a higher average revenue per customer.
Segment operating income increased 10% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 due to the higher revenue described above, which was partially offset by higher expenses for advertising, marketing, and staffing.
Segment operating income increased 9% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 due to the higher revenue described above and lower staffing expenses.
Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue was flat in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period of fiscal 2018.
Total net revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $360 million or 12% while total operating expenses for the quarter increased $128 million or 13%.
Total net revenue for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased $629 million or 12% while total operating expenses for the period increased $245 million or 9%.


part2.txt
In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers.
Our consumer tax business also faces significant competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities proposing revenue raising strategies that involve developing and providing government tax software or other government return preparation systems at public expense.
Future revenue growth depends upon our ability to adapt to technological change as well as global trends in the way customers access software offerings and successfully introduce new and enhanced products, services and business models.
Our consumer and professional tax businesses depend significantly on revenue from customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services.
If we are not able to develop and clearly demonstrate the value of new or upgraded products or services to our customers, or effectively utilize our customers’ data, our revenues may be harmed.
In addition, as we continue to introduce and expand our new business models, including offerings that are free to end users, we may be unsuccessful in monetizing or increasing customer adoption of these offerings or our risk profile may change, resulting in loss of revenue.
If we are slow to develop products and technologies that are compatible with these alternative devices, or if our competitors are able to achieve those results more quickly than us, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services, which could adversely affect our business.
Our brand value also depends on our ability to provide secure and trustworthy products and services as well as our ability to protect and use our customers’ data in a manner that meets their expectations.
Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our products and services and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial results, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of the brands and could also reduce our stock price.
Our technologies, systems, and networks have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs, and other cybersecurity incidents that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, use, loss or destruction of our customers’ or employees’ sensitive and personal data, or Intuit's sensitive business data or cause temporary or sustained unavailability of our software and systems.
This may result in disclosure of confidential information, loss of customer confidence in our products, possible litigation, material harm to our reputation and financial condition, disruption of our or our customers’ business operations and decline in our stock price.
If we cannot adequately combat such fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our tax offerings, governmental authorities may refuse to allow us to continue to offer such services, which could include federal or state tax authorities refusing to allow us to process our customers’ tax returns electronically, resulting in a significant adverse impact on our earnings and revenue.
As fraudulent activities become more pervasive and increasingly sophisticated, and fraud detection and prevention measures must become correspondingly more complex to combat them across the various industries in which we operate, we may implement risk control mechanisms that could make it more difficult for legitimate customers to obtain and use our products, which could result in lost revenue and negatively impact our earnings.
If we are unable to effectively manage our systems and processes, or if there is an error in our products, we may be unable to process customer data in an accurate, reliable and timely manner, which may harm our reputation, the willingness of customers to use our products, and our financial results.
If AWS is unavailable to us for any reason, our customers may not be able to access certain of our cloud products or features, which could significantly impact our operations, business, and financial results.
Failure of our systems or those of our third-party service providers, may result in interruptions in our service and loss of data or processing capabilities, all of which may cause a loss in customers, refunds of product fees, material harm to our reputation and operating results.
Any interruptions in our online tax preparation or electronic filing service at any time during the tax season, particularly during a peak period, could result in significantly decreased revenue, lost customers, unexpected refunds of customer charges, negative publicity and increased operating costs, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If macroeconomic conditions or other factors cause any of these institutions to fail, consolidate, stop providing certain services or institute cost-cutting efforts, our business and financial results may suffer and we may be unable to offer those services to our customers.
The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that affect the Company’s activities, including, without limitation, areas of labor, advertising, tax, financial services, data privacy and security, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, intellectual property ownership and infringement, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety.
Changes in state-imposed requirements by one or more of the states, including the required use of specific technologies or technology standards, may significantly increase the costs of providing those services to our customers and may prevent us from delivering a quality product to our customers in a timely manner.
Complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulation regarding privacy and data protection could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations or otherwise harm our business.
Each of these privacy, security and data protection laws and regulations could impose significant limitations, require changes to our business, require notification to customers or workers of a security breach, restrict our use or storage of personal information, or cause changes in customer purchasing behavior which may make our business more costly, less efficient or impossible to conduct, and may require us to modify our current or future products or services, which may make customers less likely to purchase our products and may harm our future financial results.
Any proceedings, claims or inquiries initiated by or against us, whether successful or not, may be time consuming; result in costly litigation, damage awards, consent decrees, injunctive relief or increased costs of business; require us to change our business practices or products; require significant amounts of management time; result in diversion of significant operations resources; or otherwise harm our business and future financial results.
Challenging economic times could cause potential new customers not to purchase or to delay purchasing our products and services, and could cause our existing customers to discontinue purchasing or delay upgrades of our existing products and services, thereby negatively impacting our revenues and future financial results.
In addition, weakness in the end-user consumer and small business markets could negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us, which could increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenue or future sales to these customers.


