item1.txt
We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers.
Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April.
We derive revenue from the sale of packaged software products, software subscriptions, hosted services, payroll services, merchant payment processing services, financial supplies and hardware.
We enter into contracts with customers that include promises to transfer various products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
Our desktop offerings consist of our QuickBooks Desktop products, which include both packaged software products and software subscriptions, our consumer and professional tax desktop products, which include TurboTax, Lacerte and ProSeries, our desktop payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our desktop offerings.
Our consumer and professional tax desktop products include an on-premise tax software license, related tax form updates, electronic filing service and connected services.
Our desktop payroll products are sold as software subscriptions and include a term software license with a stand-ready obligation to maintain compliance with current payroll tax laws, support and connected services.
We offer merchant payment processing services as a separately paid connected service for our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products and software subscriptions, and revenue is recognized as the services are provided to the customers.
Our online offerings include our TurboTax Online products, ProConnect Tax Online products, QuickBooks Online products, online payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our online offerings.
Revenue from the sale of our financial supplies, such as printed check stock, and hardware, such as retail point-of-sale equipment and credit card readers for mobile phones, is recognized when control is transferred to the customer which is generally when the products are shipped.
Our contracts with customers include promises to transfer various products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct performance obligations.
Our consumer and professional tax desktop products include an on-premise tax software license and related tax form updates that are recognized as the forms and updates are delivered.
Refunds are estimated based on historical experience and current business and economic indicators and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of any incremental revenue will not occur.
This standard also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments.
Under the new standard, we recognize revenue for the QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products at the time the software license is delivered rather than ratably over the period that enhancements and connected services are provided, which was approximately three years.
We have determined that the enhancements and connected services included in our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products are immaterial within the context of the contract.
Our consumer and professional tax desktop solutions include a desktop tax preparation software license, tax form updates, electronic filing and connected services.
We recognize revenue for the desktop tax preparation software license and related tax form updates as the forms and updates are delivered and recognize revenue for our electronic filing and connected services as those services are provided.
Additionally, the adoption of the standard resulted in the recognition of additional revenue and a decrease in the income tax benefit, primarily due to the net change in revenue recognition for our QuickBooks Desktop and professional tax desktop solutions.
While we continue to evaluate the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2016-02 on our consolidated financial statements, we expect that the real estate and equipment leases designated as operating leases as discussed in Note 9 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018 will be recognized as right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets upon adoption.
Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 31, 2017 has been restated to reflect the full retrospective application of ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” See Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Accounting Standards Recently Adopted,” for more information.
Revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products was $29 million and $30 million during the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and is included in the QuickBooks Desktop Accounting revenue presented in the table above.
In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers.
In addition, we may not be able to monetize our free offerings if other providers of free offerings provide features that we do not offer and customers who have formerly paid for Intuit’s products and services may elect to use our competitors’ free offerings instead.
Our consumer tax business also faces significant competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities proposing revenue raising strategies that involve developing and providing government tax software or other government return preparation systems at public expense.
Our consumer and professional tax businesses depend significantly on revenue from customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services.
If we are not able to develop and clearly demonstrate the value of new or upgraded products or services to our customers, or effectively utilize our customers’ data, our revenues may be harmed.
In addition, as we continue to introduce and expand our new business models, including offerings that are free to end users, we may be unsuccessful in monetizing or increasing customer adoption of these offerings or our risk profile may change, resulting in loss of revenue.
If we are slow to develop products and technologies that are compatible with these alternative devices, or if our competitors are able to achieve those results more quickly than us, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services, which could adversely affect our business.
We host, collect, use and retain large amounts of sensitive and personal customer and employee data, including credit card information, tax return information, bank account numbers, login credentials and passwords, personal and business financial data and transactions data, social security numbers and payroll information, as well as our confidential, nonpublic business information.
Our technologies, systems, and networks have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs, and other cybersecurity incidents that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, use, loss or destruction of our customers’ or employees’ sensitive and personal data, or Intuit's sensitive business data or cause temporary or sustained unavailability of our software and systems.
Such customers’ login credentials may be stolen from products offered by third party service providers unrelated to us and the stolen identity information may be used by a malicious third party to access our products, which could result in disclosure of confidential information.
If the global cybersecurity environment worsens, and there are increased instances of security breaches of third-party offerings where consumers’ data and sensitive information is compromised, consumers may be less willing to use online offerings, particularly offerings like ours in which customers often share sensitive financial data.
Even if our products are not affected directly by such incidents, they could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services or lead customers to cease using online and connected software products to transact financial business altogether.
If we cannot adequately combat such fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our tax offerings, governmental authorities may refuse to allow us to continue to offer such services, which could include federal or state tax authorities refusing to allow us to process our customers’ tax returns electronically, resulting in a significant adverse impact on our earnings and revenue.
As fraudulent activities become more pervasive and increasingly sophisticated, and fraud detection and prevention measures must become correspondingly more complex to combat them across the various industries in which we operate, we may implement risk control mechanisms that could make it more difficult for legitimate customers to obtain and use our products, which could result in lost revenue and negatively impact our earnings.
If we are unable to effectively manage our systems and processes, or if there is an error in our products, we may be unable to process customer data in an accurate, reliable and timely manner, which may harm our reputation, the willingness of customers to use our products, and our financial results.
As we continue to grow our online services, we become more dependent on the continuing operation and availability of our information technology and communications systems and those of our external service providers, including, for example, third-party Internet-based or cloud computing services.
If AWS is unavailable to us for any reason, our customers may not be able to access certain of our cloud products or features, which could significantly impact our operations, business, and financial results.
We face significant risks in maintaining adequate service levels during these peak periods when we derive a substantial portion of our overall revenue from the tax businesses.
Any interruptions in our online tax preparation or electronic filing service at any time during the tax season, particularly during a peak period, could result in significantly decreased revenue, lost customers, unexpected refunds of customer charges, negative publicity and increased operating costs, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If macroeconomic conditions or other factors cause any of these institutions to fail, consolidate, stop providing certain services or institute cost-cutting efforts, our business and financial results may suffer and we may be unable to offer those services to our customers.
Our tax preparation software product development cycle is particularly challenging due to the need to incorporate unpredictable and potentially late tax law and tax form changes each year and because our customers expect high levels of accuracy and a timely launch of these products to prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing deadline.
The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that affect the Company’s activities, including, without limitation, areas of labor, advertising, tax, financial services, data privacy and security, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, intellectual property ownership and infringement, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety.
Complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulation regarding privacy and data protection could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations or otherwise harm our business.
Regulations related to the provision of online services is evolving as federal, state and foreign governments continue to adopt new, or modify existing laws and regulations addressing data privacy and the collection, processing, storage, transfer and use of data.
Each of these privacy, security and data protection laws and regulations could impose significant limitations, require changes to our business, require notification to customers or workers of a security breach, restrict our use or storage of personal information, or cause changes in customer purchasing behavior which may make our business more costly, less efficient or impossible to conduct, and may require us to modify our current or future products or services, which may make customers less likely to purchase our products and may harm our future financial results.


item2.txt
The increase in excess tax benefits on share-based compensation was primarily due to an increase in stock option exercises during the period and resulted in net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to a net loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Online Services revenue increased 36% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 primarily due to customer growth in online payroll and payments and an increase in revenue from other online services.
Desktop Ecosystem revenue decreased 4% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in revenue related to the delivery of version protection for our QuickBooks Enterprise customers, which was partially offset by an increase in license revenue related to customer acquisition for our QuickBooks Enterprise offering.
Total Consumer segment revenue increased $16 million or 22% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018.
Due to the seasonal nature of our Consumer offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from Consumer products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters.
In our first fiscal quarter, Consumer segment typically generates operating losses because Consumer revenue is nominal while operating expenses for functions such as research and development and general and administrative expenses continue at relatively consistent levels.
Total Strategic Partner segment revenue increased $1 million or 6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018.
Due to the seasonal nature of our Strategic Partner offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from professional tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters.
Because of the seasonality of our Strategic Partner revenue, we do not believe that first quarter revenue in this segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year.
In our first fiscal quarter, Strategic Partner segment typically generates operating losses because revenue is nominal while operating expenses for functions such as research and development and general and administrative expenses continue at relatively consistent levels.
Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period of fiscal 2018.
Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $106 million or 12% while total operating expenses for the quarter increased $32 million or 4%.


part2.txt
In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers.
Our consumer tax business also faces significant competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities proposing revenue raising strategies that involve developing and providing government tax software or other government return preparation systems at public expense.
Our consumer and professional tax businesses depend significantly on revenue from customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services.
If we are not able to develop and clearly demonstrate the value of new or upgraded products or services to our customers, or effectively utilize our customers’ data, our revenues may be harmed.
In addition, as we continue to introduce and expand our new business models, including offerings that are free to end users, we may be unsuccessful in monetizing or increasing customer adoption of these offerings or our risk profile may change, resulting in loss of revenue.
If we are slow to develop products and technologies that are compatible with these alternative devices, or if our competitors are able to achieve those results more quickly than us, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services, which could adversely affect our business.
Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our products and services and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial results, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of the brands and could also reduce our stock price.
Our technologies, systems, and networks have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs, and other cybersecurity incidents that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, use, loss or destruction of our customers’ or employees’ sensitive and personal data, or Intuit's sensitive business data or cause temporary or sustained unavailability of our software and systems.
This may result in disclosure of confidential information, loss of customer confidence in our products, possible litigation, material harm to our reputation and financial condition, disruption of our or our customers’ business operations and decline in our stock price.
Even if our products are not affected directly by such incidents, they could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services or lead customers to cease using online and connected software products to transact financial business altogether.
If we cannot adequately combat such fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our tax offerings, governmental authorities may refuse to allow us to continue to offer such services, which could include federal or state tax authorities refusing to allow us to process our customers’ tax returns electronically, resulting in a significant adverse impact on our earnings and revenue.
As fraudulent activities become more pervasive and increasingly sophisticated, and fraud detection and prevention measures must become correspondingly more complex to combat them across the various industries in which we operate, we may implement risk control mechanisms that could make it more difficult for legitimate customers to obtain and use our products, which could result in lost revenue and negatively impact our earnings.
If we are unable to effectively manage our systems and processes, or if there is an error in our products, we may be unable to process customer data in an accurate, reliable and timely manner, which may harm our reputation, the willingness of customers to use our products, and our financial results.
If AWS is unavailable to us for any reason, our customers may not be able to access certain of our cloud products or features, which could significantly impact our operations, business, and financial results.
Failure of our systems or those of our third-party service providers, may result in interruptions in our service and loss of data or processing capabilities, all of which may cause a loss in customers, refunds of product fees, material harm to our reputation and operating results.
Any interruptions in our online tax preparation or electronic filing service at any time during the tax season, particularly during a peak period, could result in significantly decreased revenue, lost customers, unexpected refunds of customer charges, negative publicity and increased operating costs, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If macroeconomic conditions or other factors cause any of these institutions to fail, consolidate, stop providing certain services or institute cost-cutting efforts, our business and financial results may suffer and we may be unable to offer those services to our customers.
The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that affect the Company’s activities, including, without limitation, areas of labor, advertising, tax, financial services, data privacy and security, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, intellectual property ownership and infringement, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety.
Changes in state-imposed requirements by one or more of the states, including the required use of specific technologies or technology standards, may significantly increase the costs of providing those services to our customers and may prevent us from delivering a quality product to our customers in a timely manner.
Complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulation regarding privacy and data protection could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations or otherwise harm our business.
Each of these privacy, security and data protection laws and regulations could impose significant limitations, require changes to our business, require notification to customers or workers of a security breach, restrict our use or storage of personal information, or cause changes in customer purchasing behavior which may make our business more costly, less efficient or impossible to conduct, and may require us to modify our current or future products or services, which may make customers less likely to purchase our products and may harm our future financial results.
Additionally, any actual or alleged noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in negative publicity and subject us to investigations, claims or other remedies, including demands that we modify or cease existing business practices, and expose us to significant fines, penalties and other damages.
Any proceedings, claims or inquiries initiated by or against us, whether successful or not, may be time consuming; result in costly litigation, damage awards, consent decrees, injunctive relief or increased costs of business; require us to change our business practices or products; require significant amounts of management time; result in diversion of significant operations resources; or otherwise harm our business and future financial results.
Challenging economic times could cause potential new customers not to purchase or to delay purchasing our products and services, and could cause our existing customers to discontinue purchasing or delay upgrades of our existing products and services, thereby negatively impacting our revenues and future financial results.
In addition, weakness in the end-user consumer and small business markets could negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us, which could increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenue or future sales to these customers.


