fls.txt
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of results of operations and financial position have been included.
The results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period.
Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over the lease term.
Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives.
Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
other contingencies.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases under which lease assets and liabilities are recognized on the balance sheet.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
We will be required to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivable and other financial instruments, including available-for-sale debt securities.
The standard will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted.
If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million.
Our lease obligations consist of operating leases for our headquarters complex, domestic and international office facilities, and data center space, with lease periods expiring between 2019 and 2035.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
All references to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries.
Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users.
Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices.
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.
GPU business revenue was $2.02 billion, down 27% from a year earlier and up 2% sequentially.
The year-on-year decrease primarily reflects a decline in shipments of gaming GPUs and SOC modules for gaming platforms.
We believe a shortage of Intel processors that is impacting the global PC market will affect our sales of gaming GPUs for laptops in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020.
Professional Visualization revenue was $266 million, up 6% from a year earlier and down 9% sequentially.
The year-on-year increase reflects strength across both desktop and mobile workstation products.
Gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 was 58.4%, down 610 basis points from a year earlier and up 370 basis points sequentially.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock.


