fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments except as otherwise noted, considered necessary for a fair statement of results of operations and financial position have been included.
The results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period.
Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products.
We measure progress to completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each project.
Software licenses are frequently sold along with post contract customer support, or PCS.
For such arrangements, we allocate revenue to the software license and PCS on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the standalone selling price for each performance obligation.
PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Refer to Note 2 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to amend certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments.
In February 2016 and July 2018, the FASB issued accounting standards updates regarding the accounting for leases by which we will begin recognizing lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for lease terms of more than 12 months.
The FASB also recently provided a practical expedient transition method to adopt the new lease accounting requirements.
Upon adoption, we recognized the cumulative effect of the new standard as a $7 million increase to opening retained earnings, net of tax.
Revenue related to remaining performance obligations represents the amount of contracted license and development arrangements and PCS that has not been recognized.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
All references to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company.
We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI.
Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.
While our GPU and CUDA architecture is unified, our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users.
Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices.
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.
Revenue for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 increased 40% year over year and decreased 3% sequentially.
GPU business revenue was $2.66 billion, up 40% from a year earlier and down 4% sequentially, led by gaming, professional visualization, and datacenter, offsetting a substantial decline in cryptocurrency GPUs.
Gaming GPU growth was fueled by Pascal-based GPUs for desktops and by high-performance notebooks based on our Max-Q technology.
Professional visualization revenue was $281 million, up 20% from a year earlier and up 12% sequentially.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018.
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.


