fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments except as otherwise noted, considered necessary for a fair statement of results of operations and financial position have been included.
For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates.
Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products.
We measure progress to completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each project.
Customers may purchase either perpetual licenses or subscriptions to licenses, which differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software.
For such arrangements, we allocate revenue to the software license and PCS on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the standalone selling price for each performance obligation.
PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Refer to Note 2 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to amend certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments.
The FASB also recently provided a practical expedient transition method to adopt the new lease accounting requirements.
Upon adoption, we recognized the cumulative effect of the new standard as a $7 million increase to opening retained earnings, net of tax.
Revenue related to remaining performance obligations represents the amount of contracted license and development arrangements and PCS that has not been recognized.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
All references to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company.
Selected Financial Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 and “Item 1A.
We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI.
While our GPU and CUDA architecture is unified, our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users.
Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices.
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.
Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes automotive, SOC modules for the Nintendo Switch gaming console, and other embedded edge AI platforms - was $407 million, down 3% from a year ago and down 13% sequentially.
Gaming GPU growth was fueled by Turing-based GPUs for desktops and by gaming notebooks based on our Max-Q technology.
Professional visualization revenue was $305 million, up 28% from a year earlier and up 9% sequentially driven by strength across both desktop and mobile workstation products.
OEM and IP revenue was $148 million, down 23% from a year ago, due to the absence of cryptocurrency mining.
Gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 was 60.4%.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.


