fls.txt
Forward-looking statements are based on our management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments except as otherwise noted, considered necessary for a fair statement of results of operations and financial position have been included.
The results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period.
Our customer programs primarily involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products.
We measure progress to completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each project.
Software licenses are frequently sold along with post contract customer support, or PCS.
For such arrangements, we allocate revenue to the software license and PCS on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the standalone selling price for each performance obligation.
PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January.
Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to amend certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases by which we will begin recognizing lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for lease terms of more than 12 months.
Upon adoption, we recognized the cumulative effect of the new standard as an increase to opening retained earnings of $7 million, net of tax.
Revenue related to remaining performance obligations represents the amount of contracted license and development arrangements and PCS that has not been recognized.
Of the total fair value of equity awards granted during the first quarters of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, we estimated that the stock-based compensation expense related to equity awards that are not expected to vest was $18 million and $27 million, respectively.
The Convertible Notes have a dilutive impact on net income per share if our average stock price for the reporting period exceeds the adjusted conversion price of $20.0296 per share.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
All references to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company.
We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI.
Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.
While our GPU and CUDA architecture is unified, our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users.
Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices.
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.
Professional visualization revenue was $251 million, up 22% from a year earlier and down 1% sequentially.
Tegra processor business revenue, which includes SOC modules for the Nintendo Switch gaming console, was $442 million, up 33% from a year ago and down 2% sequentially.
We adopted the new accounting standard for revenue recognition in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective approach.
The sequential increase was primarily related to the increase in operating income, as well as strong collections of outstanding accounts receivable, and partially offset by an increase in share repurchases.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.


