fls.txt
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of results of operations and financial position have been included.
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception.
Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives.
Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
other contingencies.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases under which lease assets and liabilities are recognized on the balance sheet.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
The closing of the merger is subject to approval by regulatory agencies.
If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
All references to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries.
Selected Financial Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and “Item 1A.
We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI.
Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users.
Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices.
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.
Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes Automotive, SOC modules for gaming platforms, and embedded edge AI platforms - was $475 million, up 2% from a year ago and up 140% sequentially.
From a market-platforms perspective, Gaming revenue was $1.31 billion, down 27% from a year ago and up 24% sequentially.
The sequential increase was due to enterprise revenue growth driven by expanding AI workloads.
The sequential increase was primarily due to growth in shipments of embedded edge AI products.
Gross margin for the second quarter of fiscal year 2020 was 59.8%, down 350 basis points from a year earlier and up 140 basis points sequentially.
On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock.


