Documents To Review In Connection With Management’s Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations
Lam Research Corporation is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines. Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive vehicles, and data storage devices.
Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers that make products such as non-volatile memory, DRAM, and logic devices. We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success. Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer.
Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers’ business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple dies or integrated circuits on a wafer. This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps. Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale. Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.
Demand from the Cloud, Internet of Things, and other markets is driving the need for increasingly powerful and cost-efficient semiconductors. At the same time, there are growing technical challenges with traditional scaling. These trends are driving significant inflections in semiconductor manufacturing, such as the increasing importance of vertical 3D scaling strategies as well as multiple patterning to enable shrinks. 
In the September 2019 quarter, revenue decreased 8% compared to the June 2019 quarter, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment. The decline in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter was mainly driven by customer and product mix. The decrease in operating expenses in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter, was mainly driven by decreases in supplies and employee-related costs due to reduced working days in the September quarter. 
Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances increased slightly to $5.8 billion at the end of the September 2019 quarter compared to $5.7 billion at the end of the June 2019 quarter. This increase was primarily 
the result of $464.0 million of cash generated from operating activities, partially offset by approximately $158.9 million of dividends paid to shareholders, $78.1 million of share repurchases, including net share settlement on employee stock-based compensation, $39.3 million of capital expenditures, and $29.0 million of debt reductions. Employee headcount as of September 29, 2019, was approximately 10,700. 
Revenue
Revenue for the September 2019 quarter decreased 8% and 7% from the June 2019 and September 2018 quarters, respectively, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment. Our deferred revenue balance at September 29, 2019 increased to $481 million, as compared to $449 million as of June 30, 2019. Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to customers in Japan, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The estimated future revenue value from shipments to customers in Japan was approximately $47 million as of September 29, 2019, and $78 million as of June 30, 2019.
Gross Margin
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was lower in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter primarily due to customer and product mix. The slight decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2019 quarter compared to the September 2018 quarter is primarily due to lower factory utilization, partially offset by changes in customer and product mix, and lower amortization expense related to intangibles acquired through business combinations. 
Selling, General, and Administrative
Other Expense, Net
Interest income decreased in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter as a result of lower cash balances and lower yield. Interest income increased compared to the September 2018 quarter as a result of higher cash balances and higher yield.
Interest expense decreased in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter primarily due to the pay down of commercial paper under our CP Program. Interest expense increased in the September 2019 quarter compared to the September 2018 quarter due to the March 2019 issuance of $2.5 billion of senior notes. 
Changes in the market value of securities in the portfolio drove the noted variability in the gains and losses on assets related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan. 
Foreign exchange fluctuations are primarily due to currency movements against portions of our unhedged balance sheet exposures.
Other, net increased in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 and September 2018 quarters due to investments unrelated to cash and marketable securities.
The effective tax rate for the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter remained consistent.
The increase in the effective tax rate for the September 2019 quarter compared to the September 2018 quarter was primarily due to the favorable impact of the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) deferred policy election, offset by the adjustment to U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax under Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) 118 in the September 2018 quarter.
Uncertain Tax Positions
•the recognition and valuation of revenue from arrangements with multiple performance obligations which impacts revenue;
•the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross margin;
•the valuation of warranty reserves, which impacts gross margin;
Identify the performance obligations in the contract. Performance obligations include sales of systems, spare parts, and services. In addition, our customer contracts contain provisions for installation and training services which have been deemed immaterial in the context of the contract.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Standalone selling prices are based on multiple factors including, but not limited to historical discounting trends for products and services and pricing practices in different geographies.
Recognize revenue when or as we satisfy a performance obligation. Revenue for systems and spares are recognized at a point in time, which is generally upon shipment or delivery. Revenue from services is recognized over time as services are completed or ratably over the contractual period of generally one year or less.
The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using an income approach. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.
For other long-lived assets, we routinely consider whether indicators of impairment are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets is less than their carrying value. If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. We recognize an impairment charge to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the asset’s carrying value. The fair value of the asset then becomes the asset’s new carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Total gross cash, cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances were $5.8 billion at September 29, 2019 compared to $5.7 billion as of June 30, 2019. This increase was primarily the result of $464.0 million of cash generated from operating activities, partially offset by approximately $158.9 million of dividends paid to shareholders, $78.1 million of share repurchases, including net share settlement on employee stock-based compensation, $39.3 million of capital expenditures, and $29.0 million of debt reductions. 
Cash Flow from Investing Activities
Liquidity
Under certain circumstances, our 2041 Notes may be converted and settled in cash and shares of our Common Stock. During the three months ended September 29, 2019, approximately $28.1 million principal value of convertible 2041 Notes were converted and in the subsequent period through October 25, 2019, we received notice of conversion of an additional $7.3 million principal value of 2041 Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending December 29, 2019. We expect to have sufficient levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments to fund the near-term settlement of these Convertible Notes.
ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Repurchases of Company Shares
In November 2018, the Board of Directors authorized management to repurchase up to an additional $5.0 billion of Common Stock on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate. These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law. This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Funding for this share repurchase program may be through a combination of cash on hand, cash generation, and borrowings. As of September 29, 2019, we have purchased approximately $2.0 billion of shares under this authorization, $0.5 billion via open market trading and $1.5 billion utilizing accelerated share repurchase arrangements.
On June 4, 2019, we entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "June 2019 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $750 million of Common Stock. We took an initial delivery of approximately 3.1 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on June 4, 2019. The total number of shares received under the June 2019 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement of the June 2019 ASR will occur no later than November 20, 2019.
