Lam Research Corporation is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines. Our products and 
services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive devices, storage devices, and networking equipment.
Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers that make products such as non-volatile memory, DRAM, and logic devices. We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success. Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer.
Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers’ business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple dies or integrated circuits on a wafer. This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps. Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale. Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.
Demand from the Cloud, Internet of Things, and other markets is driving the need for increasingly powerful and cost-efficient semiconductors. At the same time, there are growing technical challenges with traditional scaling. These trends are driving significant inflections in semiconductor manufacturing, such as the increasing importance of vertical 3D scaling strategies as well as multiple patterning to enable shrinks. 
Despite recent semiconductor capital investment volatility, over the longer term, we believe that technology inflections in our industry, including 3D device scaling, multiple patterning, process flow, and advanced packaging chip integration will lead to an increase in our served addressable market for our products and services in deposition, etch, and clean. While there could be continued variability in the near-term, we believe that demand for our products and services will increase faster than overall spending on wafer fabrication equipment, as the proportion of customers’ capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas, and as we continue to gain market share.
In the March 2019 quarter, revenue decreased slightly compared to the December 2018 quarter. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the March 2019 quarter declined compared to the December 2018 quarter primarily due to lower factory and field utilization and customer and product mix. The increase in operating expenses in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 quarter was mainly driven by increases in employee-related costs resulting from seasonal impacts, an extra work week in the quarter, and restructuring charges. Additionally, our March 2019 quarter operating income was negatively impacted primarily by the appreciation of the stock market during the quarter as we incurred additional costs related to our deferred compensation plan liabilities. We have deferred compensation plan-related assets designed to mitigate market valuation exposure to these liabilities, and the market gains for the March 2019 quarter associated with these assets are recognized in other income and expense. 
Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances increased to $6.4 billion at the end of the March 2019 quarter compared to $3.9 billion at the end of the December 2018 quarter, primarily due to $2.5 billion of debt 
issuance during the quarter. Cash flow generated by operating activities during the March 2019 quarter of $933 million and a portion of the proceeds on debt issuance, were used for $935 million of treasury stock purchases, $171 million of dividends paid to stockholders, and $76 million for capital expenditures. Employee headcount as of March 31, 2019, was approximately 10,800. 
Revenue for the March 2019 quarter decreased 3% from the December 2018 quarter, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment. Revenue for the March 2019 quarter decreased 16% compared to the same prior year period, and decreased 8% in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment.
Our deferred revenue balance at March 31, 2019 decreased to $441 million, as compared to $493 million as of December 23, 2018. Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to customers in Japan, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The estimated future revenue value from shipments to customers in Japan was approximately $80 million as of March 31, 2019, and $262 million as of December 23, 2018.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue reduced in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 quarter primarily due to lower factory and field utilization, customer and product mix, and deferred compensation plan-related costs. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the March 2019 quarter compared to the March 2018 quarter is primarily due to lower factory utilization and changes in customer and product mix. In the nine months ended March 31, 2019, gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower factory utilization. 
Interest income increased in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 quarter as a result of higher cash balances and higher yield. Interest income increased compared to the March 2018 quarter as a result of higher yield. Interest income increased in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 as a result of higher yield.
Significant changes in the market value of securities in the portfolio drove the gains on assets related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 and March 2018 quarters.
Foreign exchange fluctuations are primarily due to currency movements against portions of our unhedged balance sheet exposures.
Other, net resulted in higher income during the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 and March 2018 quarters primarily due to a decrease in charitable contributions and gain from equity investments. Other, net resulted in lower expense during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year due to proceeds from insurance claims.
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended December 23, 2018 was primarily due to the final tax expense adjustment under SAB 118 to the U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings in the three months ended December 23, 2018, and stock-based compensation excess tax benefits in the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The increase in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 25, 2018 was primarily due to the impact of U.S. taxation on low-taxed foreign intangible income applicable beginning in fiscal year 2019.
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the nine months ended March 25, 2018 was primarily due to the reduction of the federal statutory tax rate and the impact of U.S. taxation on low-taxed foreign intangible income applicable beginning in fiscal year 2019, and the impact of the U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax expense on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings in the nine months ended March 25, 2018.
The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using an income approach. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.
For other long-lived assets, we routinely consider whether indicators of impairment are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets is less than their carrying value. If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. We recognize an impairment charge to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the asset’s carrying value. The fair value of the asset then becomes the asset’s new carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value. 
Total gross cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments (together comprising total cash and investments) were $6.4 billion at March 31, 2019 compared to $5.2 billion as of June 24, 2018. This increase was primarily due to cash provided by operating activities and the issuance of $2.5 billion of senior notes, partially offset by Common Stock repurchases in connection with our stock repurchase program and dividends paid. 
Under certain circumstances, our 2041 Notes may be converted and settled in cash and shares of our Common Stock. During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, approximately $114.6 million principal value of convertible 2041 Notes were converted. We expect to have sufficient levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments to fund the near-term settlement of these Convertible Notes.
During the December 2017 quarter, a one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, estimated at $991 million, was recognized associated with the December 2017 U.S. tax reform. In accordance with SAB 118, we have now finalized the amount of the transition tax during the period ended December 23, 2018. The final amount is $868.4 million. The Company elected to pay the one-time transition tax over a period of eight years with 8% of the transition tax to be paid each September 15 for years 2018 through 2022, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid each September 15 for years 2023 through 2025.
ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
In November 2018, the Board of Directors authorized management to repurchase up to an additional $5.0 billion of Common Stock on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate. These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law. This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Funding for this repurchase program may be through a combination of cash on hand, cash generation, and borrowings. 
On January 31, 2019, we entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "January 2019 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $760 million of Common Stock. We took an initial delivery of approximately 3.3 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on January 30, 2019. The total number of shares received under the January 2019 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement of the January 2019 ASR is anticipated to occur no later than June 5, 2019.
On August 15, 2018, we entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "August 2018 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.4 billion of Common Stock. We took an initial delivery of approximately 5.8 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on August 14, 2018. The total number of shares received under the August 2018 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement of two of the agreements occurred during the quarter ended December 23, 2018. Approximately 1.7 million shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $148.72 for the transaction period. The remaining two agreements settled during the quarter ended March 31, 2019, resulting in the receipt of approximately 1.8 million additional shares, which yielded a weighted-average share price of approximately $146.00 for the transaction period. 
