Documents To Review In Connection With Management’s Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations
Lam Research is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines. Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic 
products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive devices, storage devices, and networking equipment. Our vision is to realize full value from natural technology extensions of our company. 
Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers that make products such as non-volatile memory, DRAM memory, and logic devices. We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success. Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer.
Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers’ business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple dies or integrated circuits on a wafer. This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps. Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale. Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.
Demand from the Cloud, Internet of Things, and other markets is driving the need for increasingly powerful and cost-efficient semiconductors. At the same time, there are growing technical challenges with traditional scaling. These trends are driving significant inflections in semiconductor manufacturing, such as the increasing importance of vertical 3D scaling strategies as well as multiple patterning to enable shrinks. 
In the September 2018 quarter, revenue decreased compared to the June 2018 quarter primarily as a result of lower customer demand during the quarter. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2018 quarter decreased as compared to the June 2018 quarter primarily due to lower factory utilization and customer and product mix. Operating expenses in the September 2018 quarter decreased compared to the June 2018 quarter mainly due to a decrease in variable compensation, outside services and supplies.
Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances decreased to $3.9 billion as of September 23, 2018, compared to $5.2 billion as of June 24, 2018; driven by $1.7 billion of share repurchases, including net share settlement on employee stock-based compensation and $174 million of dividends paid to stockholders, offset by cash generated by operations of approximately $720 million. Employee headcount as of September 23, 2018, was approximately 11,000. 
Revenue
Revenue for the September 2018 quarter decreased 25% and 6% from the June 2018 and September 2017 quarters, respectively, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment. Our deferred revenue balance at September 23, 2018 decreased to $626 million, as compared to $994 million as of June 24, 2018, as a result of our adoption of ASC 606, as well as timing of revenue recognition. Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to customers in Japan, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The estimated future revenue value from shipments to customers in Japan was approximately $454 million as of September 23, 2018, and $607 million as of June 24, 2018.
Gross Margin
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased in the September 2018 quarter compared to the June 2018 quarter primarily due to lower factory utilization and changes in customer and product mix. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2018 quarter compared to the September 2017 quarter is primarily due to lower factory utilization.
and benefits due to higher headcount, a $4 million increase in outside services, partially offset by a $12 million decrease in variable compensation. 
Selling, General, and Administrative
Other Expense, Net
Interest income decreased in the September 2018 quarter compared to the June 2018 and September 2017 quarters as a result lower cash balances, offset by higher yield.
Interest expense decreased in the September 2018 quarter compared to the June 2018 and September 2017 quarters due to the retirement of the 2018 Convertible Note and conversions of the 2041 Convertible Note. 
Changes in the market value of securities in the portfolio drove the noted variability in the gains on assets related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan. 
Foreign exchange fluctuations are primarily due to currency movements against portions of our unhedged balance sheet exposures. 
Other net was higher during the September 2018 quarter compared to the September 2017 quarter primarily due to an increase in charitable contributions during the September 2018 quarter.
The increase in the effective tax rate for the September 2018 quarter compared to the June 2018 quarter was primarily due to the impact of the GILTI provisions which are applicable beginning in fiscal year 2019 and the impact of an adjustment under SAB 118 to the U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings.
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the September 2018 quarter compared to the September 2017 quarter was primarily due to the reduction of the federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%.
Uncertain Tax Positions
•the recognition and valuation of revenue from arrangements with multiple performance obligations which impacts revenue;
•the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross margin;
•the valuation of warranty reserves, which impacts gross margin;
The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using an income approach. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.
For other long-lived assets, we routinely consider whether indicators of impairment are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets is less than their carrying value. If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. We recognize an impairment charge to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the asset’s carrying value. The fair value of the asset then becomes the asset’s new carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Total gross cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments (together comprising total cash and investments) were $3.9 billion at September 23, 2018 compared to $5.2 billion as of June 24, 2018. This decrease was primarily due to Common Stock repurchases in connection with our stock repurchase program. 
Cash Flow from Investing Activities
Liquidity
Under certain circumstances, our 2041 Notes may be converted and settled in cash and shares of our Common Stock. During the three months ended September 23, 2018, approximately $79.4 million principal value of convertible 2041 Notes were converted and in the subsequent period through October 19, 2018, we received notice of conversion of an additional $6 million principal value of 2041 Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending December 23, 2018. We expect to have sufficient levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments to fund the near-term settlement of these Convertible Notes.
During the December 2017 quarter, a one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, estimated at $991 million, was recognized associated with the December 2017 U.S. tax reform. This value is identified as provisional in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the period ended September 23, 2018, and is subject to future measurement period adjustments under SAB 118. Such an adjustment was made during the June 2018 quarter and the September 2018 quarter, incorporating new information into the estimate; we may make further adjustments as new information is made available. The revised estimate is now $919.5 million. The Company elected to pay the one-time transition tax over a period of eight years with 8% of the transition tax to be paid each September 15 for years 2018 through 2022, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid each September 15 for years 2023 through 2025.
ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Repurchases of Company Shares
In March 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $2.0 billion of Common Stock. The new authorization increased the share repurchase authorization granted in November 2017 to an aggregate of $4.0 billion of Common Stock, and supplements the remaining balances from any prior authorizations. These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law. Repurchases will be funded using our cash, cash generation, and available credit facilities. This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. 
On August 15, 2018, we entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "August 2018 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.4 billion of Common Stock. We took an initial delivery of approximately 5.8 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on August 14, 2018. The total number of shares to be received under the August 2018 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement of the August 2018 ASR is expected to be completed no later than February 15, 2019.
