Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk.
Our interest rate risk relates primarily to our fixed income short-term investment portfolio as we did not have any outstanding debt as of May 5, 2018.
We maintain an investment policy that requires minimum credit ratings, diversification of credit risk and limits the long-term interest rate risk by requiring effective maturities of generally less than five years.
We invest our excess cash in highly liquid and highly rated debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, money market mutual funds, asset backed securities, corporate debt securities and municipal debt securities that are classified as available-for-sale and time deposits.
These investments are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair market value with their related unrealized gain or loss reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity.
Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry a degree of interest rate risk.
Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall.
To provide an assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact that an adverse change in interest rates would have on the value of the investment portfolio, excluding time deposits.
Based on investment positions as of May 5, 2018, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in a $3.5 million decline in the fair market value of the portfolio.
Due to our positive cash flow from operations, the relatively short-term nature of our investment portfolio and our ability to hold investments to maturity, such change in fair market value would likely not have resulted in any significant cash flow impact.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.
All of our sales and the majority of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars.
Since we operate in many countries, we pay certain payroll and other operating expenses in local currencies and these expenses may be higher or lower in U.S. dollar terms.
Our operations in Israel and China represent a large portion of our total foreign currency exposure.
Additionally, we may hold certain assets and liabilities, including potential tax liabilities, in local currency on our consolidated balance sheet.
These tax liabilities would be settled in local currency.
Therefore, foreign exchange gains and losses from remeasuring the tax liabilities are recorded to interest and other income, net.
The related effects of foreign exchange fluctuations on local currency expenses are recorded to operating expenses.
There is also a risk that our customers may be negatively impacted in their ability to purchase our products priced in U.S. dollars when there has been significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates.
To provide an assessment of the foreign currency exchange risk associated with our foreign currency exposures within operating expense, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact that an adverse change in exchange rates would have on our financial statements.
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10%, our operating expense could increase by approximately 4%.
We expect our hedges of foreign currency exposures to be highly effective and offset a significant portion of the short-term impact of changes in exchange rates on the hedged portion of our exposures.
