Throughout this document, references to “we,” “our,” the “company,” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its subsidiaries.
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency.
We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency.
Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Refer to Note 18 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 19 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this terminated transaction and related matters.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified.
These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC.
Refer to Note 9 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Total revenue of $2.51 billion for second quarter 2018 declined 2.2% from second quarter 2017 and included a 1.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
Post sale revenue, which primarily reflects contracted services, equipment maintenance, supplies and financing, was $1.95 billion and represented 78% of total revenue.
Post sale revenue declined 3.1% from second quarter 2017 and included a 1.9-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
These declines were partially offset by higher revenues from our Managed Document Services (MDS) and Global Imaging business as well as higher paper sales revenue and supplies revenue, excluding original equipment manufacturer (OEM) supplies.
Total equipment revenue of $561 million increased 0.9%, including a 1.5-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
Post sale revenue of $3.89 billion, which represented 79% of total revenue, declined 1.7% and included a 2.9-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
Total equipment revenue of $1.06 billion declined 0.8% including a 2.5-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year periods was primarily due to Transaction and related costs, net and lower revenues.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was also negatively impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox and Income tax expense.
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year periods was primarily related to lower revenues, partially offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, as well as gains from the sale of non-core assets.
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was also impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included an out of period adjustment recorded during the first quarter 2018, as well as higher income taxes.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $451 million, as compared to $413 million for the prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to the prior year reclassification of $110 million of collections of deferred proceeds and beneficial interests from the sale of receivables to investing cash flows as a result of an accounting change (refer to Note 3 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information) and improved working capital2.
Cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $17 million and included capital expenditures of $50 million, which were partially offset by proceeds of $32 million from the sale of non-core business assets.
Cash used in financing activities of $456 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 primarily reflects payments of $265 million on Senior Notes, $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation, $19 million of bridge facility costs and dividend payments of $135 million.
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
•Services, maintenance and rentals revenue includes rental and maintenance revenue (including bundled supplies) as well as the post sale component of the document services revenue from our Managed Document Services (MDS) offerings, and revenues from our Communication and Marketing Solutions (CMS).
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
The increase in mid-range reflected higher installs of new products across North America including higher large account sales as well as higher revenues from developing markets.
•21% increase in color multifunction devices, reflecting demand for recently launched products across nearly all channels.
•21% increase in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven largely by higher activity from low-end devices in developing markets as well as higher sales through U.S. indirect channels.
•29% increase in mid-range color installs, reflecting demand across large enterprise and indirect channels as well as a favorable impact due to the timing of our ConnectKey launch in the prior year.
•9% decrease in high-end color installs, as growth from our new Iridesse production press was offset by lower installs of iGen and lower-end production systems.
•12% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends.
•13% increase in color multifunction devices, reflecting demand for recently launched products across nearly all channels.
•20% increase in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven largely by higher activity from low-end devices in developing markets as well as higher sales through U.S. indirect channels.
•23% increase in mid-range color installs, demand across large enterprise and indirect channels as well as a favorable impact due to the timing of our ConnectKey launch in the prior year.
•3% decrease in high-end color systems, as growth from Iridesse and Versant products was offset by lower installs of iGen and lower-end production systems.
•11% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends.
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
Signings for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 19.6% from second quarter 2017, including a 1.1-percentage point favorable impact from currency, and signings for the six months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 11.2% from the prior year period, including a 1.2-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
The decrease in both periods reflected a lower renewal rate impacted by fewer large-deal renewal opportunities combined with ongoing competitive pressure in the market.
On a trailing twelve month (TTM) basis, signings decreased 3.0% from the comparable prior year period, with a 0.9-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
New business TCV for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 2.9% from second quarter 2017, with a 0.9-percentage point favorable impact from currency, led by contracts signed in Europe.
New business TCV for the six months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 1.0% from the prior year period, with a 1.1-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
On a TTM basis, new business decreased 1.8% at constant currency1.
Contract renewal rate for the second quarter of 2018 was 75%, compared to our full year 2017 renewal rate of 84%.
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
•North America, which includes our sales channels in the U.S. and Canada.
•International, which includes our sales channels in Europe, Eurasia, Latin America, Middle East, Africa and India.
•“Entry”, which includes A4 devices and desktop printers.
Prices in this product group can range from approximately $150 to $3,000.
•“Mid-Range”, which includes A3 Office and Light Production devices that generally serve workgroup environments in mid to large enterprises.
Prices in this product group can range from approximately $2,000 to $75,000+.
Prices for these systems can range from approximately $30,000 to $1,000,000+.
Second quarter 2018 pre-tax income margin of 5.3% decreased 2.2-percentage points as compared to second quarter 2017.
Second quarter 2018 adjusted1 operating margin of 11.9% decreased 1.3-percentage points as compared to second quarter 2017, including a 0.8-percentage point unfavorable impact from SAG expenses specifically related to the exit of a real estate facility (0.5-percentage points) and the termination of an IT project (0.3-percentage points).
Adjusted1 operating margin for the six months ended June 30, 2018 of 11.2% decreased 0.9-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, including a 0.5-percentage point unfavorable impact from SAG expenses specifically related to the exit of a real estate facility (0.4-percentage points) and the termination of an IT project (0.1-percentage points).
Equipment gross margin for the six months ended June 30, 2018 of 32.1% increased 2.4-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, reflecting benefits from transaction currency and cost productivity savings.
SAG as a percentage of revenue of 24.9% increased 0.5-percentage points compared to second quarter 2017, including a 0.8-percentage point unfavorable impact from the exit of a real estate facility and the termination of an IT project.
SAG of $624 million was $2 million lower than second quarter 2017, including an approximate $10 million unfavorable impact from currency as well as $20 million of charges related to the accelerated depreciation from the early termination of a capital lease associated with a surplus facility ($13 million) and the write-off of an IT project ($7 million).
Bad debt expense of $12 million was $3 million higher than second quarter 2017 and remained at less than one percent of receivables.
SAG as a percentage of revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 of 25.3% increased 0.2-percentage points compared to the prior year period, including a 0.5-percentage point unfavorable impact from the exit of a real estate facility and the termination of an IT project.
SAG of $1,252 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $8 million lower than the prior year period, including an approximate $29 million unfavorable impact from currency as well as $29 million of charges related to the accelerated depreciation from the early termination of a capital lease associated with a surplus facility ($22 million) and the write-off of an IT project ($7 million).
Bad debt expense of $25 million increased $3 million compared to the prior year period and remained at less than one percent of receivables.
Restructuring and related costs were $62 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and included $64 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 950 employees worldwide and $12 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $14 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
Net restructuring and asset impairment charges for the six months ended June 30, 2017 of $140 million included $157 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 1,500 employees worldwide and $3 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $20 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives, which included a $5 million favorable adjustment on the early termination of the lease for the corporate airplane.
The restructuring reserve balance as of June 30, 2018 for all programs was $79 million, of which $76 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Refer to Note 10 - Restructuring Programs in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs.
•Costs related to the previously disclosed settlement agreement reached with certain shareholders as well as third-party legal and other related costs associated with on-going litigation resulting from the terminated combination transaction and other related shareholder actions.
•$19 million of costs related to the commitment for a $2.5 billion unsecured bridge loan facility, which was terminated concurrent with the termination of the Fuji Xerox combination transaction.
•Insurance recoveries of approximately $15 million for litigation and related settlement costs.
•Costs related to the proposed combination transaction with Fuji Xerox, which was terminated in May 2018, primarily for third-party accounting, legal, consulting and other similar types of services.
Worldwide employment was approximately 34,300 as of June 30, 2018 and decreased by approximately 1,000 from December 31, 2017.
The reduction is primarily due to the impact of restructuring and productivity-related reductions.
Non-financing interest expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was $27 million and increased $3 million as compared to the second quarter of 2017.
When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense increased by $3 million as compared to the second quarter of 2017 due to a higher debt balance reflecting $1.0 billion of new debt issued in the third quarter 2017 to fund, among other things, a $500 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans partially offset by lower average interest rates.
Non-financing interest expense for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $56 million and decreased $4 million as compared to the prior year period.
When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $3 million from the prior year comparable period primarily due to a lower debt balance reflecting debt repayments of approximately $1.3 billion in the first quarter 2017 partially offset by $1.0 billion of new debt issued in the third quarter 2017 to fund, among other things, a $500 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans; the decline also reflected lower average interest rates.
Both period decreases were primarily driven by the favorable impact of higher pension contributions and asset returns in the prior year.
Gains on sales of businesses and assets for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 of $16 million and $32 million, respectively, reflected the sale of non-core business assets.
The $400 million estimated provisional charge continues to be our best estimate of the impacts from the Tax Act and no further adjustment of that charge was made in the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Any adjustments to these provisional amounts will be reported as a component of Income tax expense in the reporting period in which any such adjustments are determined.
Accordingly, our effective tax rate for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 includes the estimated impact for BEAT, which has also been incorporated into our estimated annual effective tax for 2018.
Equity in net income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates primarily reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox Net income (loss).
The six months ended June 30, 2018 equity loss included an approximate $28 million charge related to the out-of-period adjustments described in Note 9 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity, in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and in the "Fuji Xerox Adjustments" section above.
Equity in net income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 included $1 million and $80 million, respectively, of higher year-over-year charges related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other charges.
Other charges include costs associated with the terminated combination transaction discussed in Note 19 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Second quarter 2018 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $112 million, or $0.42 per diluted share.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $213 million, or $0.80 per diluted share.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $135 million, or $0.50 per diluted share.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $391 million, or $1.48 per diluted share and includes Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net and Non-service retirement-related costs as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
Second quarter 2017 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $166 million, or $0.63 per diluted share.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $224 million, or $0.86 per diluted share.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $212 million, or $0.80 per diluted share.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $400 million, or $1.52 per diluted share and includes Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, and Non-service retirement-related costs as well as other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
Refer to Note 17 - Earnings per Share in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share.
Discontinued operations relate to our Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) business, which was separated effective December 31, 2016.
Refer to Note 4 - Divestitures in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Discontinued operations.
Second quarter 2018 Net income attributable to Xerox was $112 million, or $0.42 per diluted share.
Second quarter 2017 Net income attributable to Xerox was $166 million, or $0.63 per diluted share.
Net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $206 million, or $0.78 per diluted share.
Second quarter 2018 Other Comprehensive Loss, Net Attributable to Xerox was $235 million and included $322 million of net translation adjustment losses reflecting the weakening of our major foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar in the second quarter 2018 partially offset by net gains from the changes in defined benefit plans of $90 million primarily due to currency impacts on net actuarial losses.
This compares to second quarter 2017 Other Comprehensive Income, Net Attributable to Xerox of $161 million, which included net translation adjustment gains of $204 million reflecting the strengthening of our major foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar in the second quarter 2017 partially offset by losses from the net changes in defined benefit plans of $29 million primarily due to currency impacts on net actuarial losses.
Other Comprehensive Loss, Net Attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $24 million and included $146 million of net translation adjustment losses reflecting the weakening of our major foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar in the first half of 2018 partially offset by net gains from the changes in defined benefit plans
of $108 million primarily due to settlements and the currency impacts on net actuarial losses.
This compares to Other Comprehensive Income, Net Attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2017 of $327 million, which included net translation adjustment gains of $337 million reflecting the strengthening of our major foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar in the first half of 2017.
There were no borrowings under our Credit Facility or Commercial Paper Program at June 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017, respectively.
We continue to expect full year 2018 operating cash flows from continuing operations to be between $900 million and $1,100 million, capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $150 million and dividend payments to common shareholders are expected to be approximately $260 million.
•$176 million increase from accounts receivable primarily due to the timing of collections and lower revenue, as well as the prior year reclassification of $99 million of collections of deferred proceeds from the sales of accounts receivables to investing.
•$33 million increase from lower restructuring payments.
•$18 million increase due to lower net tax payments.
•$17 million increase from inventory due to timing of the product launch in prior year.
•$68 million decrease from Accounts payable and accrued compensation primarily related to the year-over-year timing of supplier and vendor payments.
•$38 million decrease due to net payments for Transaction and related costs.
•$29 million decrease from higher pension contributions primarily in the U.K.
Refer to Note 14 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
•$27 million decrease in dividends received from equity investments primarily due to lower income from Fuji Xerox.
•$99 million decrease primarily as a result of the termination of certain accounts receivables sales arrangements in fourth quarter 2017.
•$76 million increase due to no acquisitions in 2018.
•$31 million increase primarily from the sale of non-core business assets in 2018.
•$1,018 million decrease from net debt activity.
2018 reflects payments of $265 million on Senior Notes, $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $19 million of bridge facility costs.
Refer to Note 5 - Supplementary Financial Information in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash.
Refer to Note 19 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the bridge facility that was terminated during the second quarter of 2018.
During the fourth quarter 2017, we terminated all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and all but one arrangement in Europe.
Refer to Note 6 - Accounts Receivable, Net in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our accounts receivable sales arrangements.
We manage our worldwide liquidity using internal cash management practices, which are subject to (1) the statutes, regulations and practices of each of the local jurisdictions in which we operate, (2) the legal requirements of the agreements to which we are a party and (3) the policies and cooperation of the financial institutions we utilize to maintain and provide cash management services.
There were no share repurchases through the second quarter of 2018.
In July 2018, the Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program (exclusive of any commissions and other transaction fees and costs).
The Company expects to opportunistically repurchase up to $500 million of shares during the remainder of 2018.
We are required to recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet.
As permitted, certain of these derivative contracts have been designated for hedge accounting treatment.
Certain of our derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are effective as economic hedges.
These derivative contracts are likewise required to be recognized each period at fair value and therefore do result in some level of volatility.
The related cash flow impacts of all of our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities.
By their nature, all derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of market and credit risk.
The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency exchange and interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged.
We do not believe there is significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments because these transactions are executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions.
Further, our policy is to deal with counterparties having a minimum investment grade or better credit rating.
Credit risk is managed through the continuous monitoring of exposures to such counterparties.
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
•2017 - Loss on early extinguishment of debt in the first quarter of 2017.
•2017 - A benefit from the remeasurement of a tax matter in the first quarter of 2017 that related to a previously adjusted item.
Refer to "Currency Impact" for a discussion of this measure and its use in our analysis of revenue growth.
Management believes that all of these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period’s results against the corresponding prior period’s results.
However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods.
Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, Registrant issued the following securities in transactions that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Act”).
d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.
There were no repurchases of Xerox Common stock pursuant to Board authorized share repurchase programs during the second quarter of 2018.
In July 2018, Registrant’s Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program (exclusive of any commissions and other transaction fees and costs related thereto).
Shares of Registrant’s common stock may be repurchased on the open market, or through derivative or negotiated transactions.
Open-market repurchases will be made in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Rule 10b-18, and are subject to market conditions, as well as applicable legal and other considerations.
