Throughout this document, references to “we,” “our,” the “Company,” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its subsidiaries.
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency.
Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Total revenue of $2.29 billion for second quarter 2019 declined 8.8% from second quarter 2018, including a 1.6-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
Lower revenues from our mid-range ConnectKey devices also reflected the continued impact of organizational changes within our XBS sales organization as part of Project Own It.
The decline in Equipment sales primarily reflected lower revenues from our mid-range products, which were impacted by organizational changes within XBS sales organization, as we transitioned a significant number of accounts from U.S. Enterprise in the first half of 2019.
Second quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox increased $69 million as compared to second quarter 2018 primarily due to lower Transaction and related costs, net and higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
$20 million as compared to second quarter 2018.
Net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $179 million as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower Transaction and related costs, net and Income tax expense.
These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs.
Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $61 million as compared to the prior year period.
Cash flows provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $539 million, as compared to $451 million in the prior year period primarily reflecting increased dividends from equity investments and lower cash payments for Transaction and related costs.
These benefits were partially offset by higher payments for restructuring related costs and a use of cash for working capital2.
Cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $72 million including capital expenditures of $31 million and acquisitions of $42 million.
Our rate of revenue decline in the second quarter 2019 was impacted by organizational changes, primarily in North America.
While this impact gradually mitigated during the quarter, it still remains and we recognize that the implementation of our strategic initiatives to transform the company for long-term sustainability (including offering, go-to-market, sales coverage and cost structure changes) will continue to impact our revenues in the near term.
As a result, we now expect our revenues to decline approximately 6% for the year, excluding an approximate 1.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, compared to our previous guidance of an approximate 5% decline, excluding an approximate 1.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
Installs include activity from Xerox Services and Xerox-branded products shipped to our XBS sales unit.
Detail by product group (see Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions) is shown below.
•12% decrease in color multifunction devices reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices from our indirect channels in the U.S. and low-end devices from EMEA.
•1% increase in black-and-white multifunction devices driven by higher activity from our EMEA organization, including low-end devices in developing market regions.
•12% decrease in mid-range color installs reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices.
The decrease was significantly impacted by lower activity as a result of the transitional impact associated with recently implemented organizational changes in our XBS sales organization (as part of our Project Own It transformation actions), which included the transitioning of accounts to implement coverage changes, consolidation of real estate locations and the reduction of management layers.
The decrease also reflected lower activity and a lack of large deals in EMEA, as well as a challenging comparison against the period with the highest activity growth in the prior year, partially due to the timing of our ConnectKey product launch.
•9% decrease in mid-range black-and-white reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices primarily from EMEA.
•1% increase in high-end color installs reflecting continued demand for our Iridesse production press in EMEA and higher installs of our inkjet cut-sheet systems.
Lower activity from iGen and Versant production systems provided a partial headwind.
•33% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends.
•3% decrease in color multifunction devices reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices and low-end devices from EMEA, partially offset by higher activity in our indirect channels in the U.S.
•Installs of black-and-white multifunction devices were flat reflecting higher installs of ConnectKey devices, as well as higher activity in our indirect channels in the U.S, offset by lower activity from our EMEA organization, including low-end devices in developing market regions.
•10% decrease in mid-range color installs reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices.
The decrease was significantly impacted by lower activity as a result of the transitional impact associated with recently implemented organizational changes in our XBS sales organization (as part of our Project Own It transformation actions), which included the transitioning of accounts to implement coverage changes, consolidation of real estate locations and the reduction of management layers.
The decrease also reflected lower activity in EMEA.
•13% decrease in mid-range black-and-white reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices primarily from indirect channels in the U.S.
•6% decrease in high-end color installs reflecting lower activity from iGen and Versant production systems, partially offset by continued strong demand for our Iridesse production press in EMEA and higher installs of our inkjet cut-sheet systems.
•22% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends.
•Americas, which includes our sales channels in the U.S. and Canada, as well as Mexico, and Central and South America.
•EMEA, which includes our sales channels in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India.
Prices in this product group can range from approximately $150 to $3,000.
•“Mid-Range”, which includes A3 Office and Light Production devices that generally serve workgroup environments in mid to large enterprises.
Prices in this product group can range from approximately $2,000 to $75,000+.
Prices for these systems can range from approximately $30,000 to $1,000,000+.
Xerox Services also includes Communication and Marketing Solutions that were previously excluded from our former MDS definition.
The decrease also included the unfavorable impact of transaction currency.
The decrease also included the unfavorable impact of transaction currency.
SAG as a percentage of revenue of 22.7% decreased by 2.2-percentage points as compared to second quarter 2018, primarily reflecting the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our Project Own It transformation actions.
SAG of $519 million decreased $105 million as compared to second quarter 2018, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as favorable impacts of approximately $9 million from translation currency and $20 million from higher costs in the prior year related to the termination of an IT project and the accelerated depreciation associated with the exit of a surplus real estate facility.
Bad debt expense of $12 million was flat as compared to second quarter 2018 and on a trailing twelve month basis (TTM) remained at less than one percent of total receivables.
SAG as a percentage of revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of 23.7% decreased by 1.6-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, primarily reflecting the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our Project Own It transformation actions.
SAG for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of $1,067 million decreased $185 million as compared to the prior year period, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as favorable impacts of approximately $22 million from translation currency and $29 million from higher costs in the prior year related to the termination of an IT project and the accelerated depreciation associated with the exit of a surplus real estate facility.
Bad debt expense of $25 million was flat as compared to the prior year period and on a trailing twelve month basis (TTM) remained at less than one percent of total receivables.
These costs were partially offset by $16 million of net reversals, primarily resulting from changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives as well as $2 million in favorable adjustments from the early termination of prior period impaired leases.
However, as noted in the discussion on Revenues, the implementation of these initiatives negatively impacted our revenues in the first half of 2019.
Nevertheless, any expected savings associated with these initiatives may continue to be offset to some extent until initiatives are fully implemented and stabilized.
Restructuring and related costs were $62 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and included $64 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 950 employees worldwide and $12 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $14 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
The restructuring reserve balance as of June 30, 2019 for all programs was $69 million, of which $67 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs.
Transaction and related costs, net are expenses incurred in connection with Xerox's planned transaction with Fuji, which was terminated in May 2018, as well as costs and expenses related to the previously disclosed settlement agreement reached with certain shareholders and litigation related to the terminated transaction and other shareholder actions.
Transaction and related costs, net for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $4 million as compared to $96 million in the prior year period.
The increase primarily reflected the accelerated write-off of trade names associated with our realignment and consolidation of certain XBS sales units as part of our Project Own It transformation actions.
Worldwide employment was approximately 27,900 as of June 30, 2019 and decreased by approximately 4,500 from December 31, 2018.
The reduction resulted from net attrition (attrition net of gross hires), of which a large portion is not expected to be backfilled, as well as the impact of organizational changes including employees transferred as part of the shared services arrangement recently entered into with HCL Technologies.
Second quarter non-financing interest expense of $26 million was $1 million lower than second quarter 2018.
When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $1 million from second quarter 2018 primarily due to a lower debt balance.
When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $5 million from the prior year period primarily due to a lower debt balance.
Refer to Note 13 - Debt in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the interest expense.
Non-service retirement-related costs for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased $15 million and $27 million, respectively, as compared to the prior year periods, primarily driven by the favorable impact of a 2018 amendment to our U.S. Retiree Health Plan partially offset by higher losses from pension settlements in the U.S.
Refer to Note 16 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding non-service retirement-related costs.
Gains on sales of businesses and assets for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $16 million and $31 million, respectively, as compared to the prior year periods, reflecting the prior year sale of non-core business assets.
Equity in net income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates primarily reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox Net income (loss).
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, equity income increased $15 million and $128 million as compared to the prior year periods, primarily reflecting savings from restructuring.
The increase in Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates for the six months ended June 30, 2019 also reflects $64 million of lower year-over-year charges of related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other charges, as well as an approximate $28 million charge related to an out-of-period charge at Fuji Xerox in the prior year.
Refer to Note 11 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our Investment in Fuji Xerox as well as the prior period out-of-period adjustment.
Second quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox was $181 million, or $0.77 per diluted share.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox was $233 million, or $0.99 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net and non-service retirement-related costs.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox was $452 million, or $1.90 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net and non-service retirement-related costs, as well as other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
Second quarter 2018 Net income attributable to Xerox was $112 million, or $0.42 per diluted share.
Refer to Note 20 - Earnings per Share in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share.
There were no borrowings under our Credit Facility at June 30, 2019 or December 31, 2018, respectively.
We continue to expect operating cash flows from continuing operations to be between $1,150 million and $1,250 million, capital expenditures of approximately $150 million, dividend payments to shareholders of approximately $250 million and share repurchases of at least $600 million in 2019.
•$47 million increase due to lower placements of equipment on operating leases.
•$46 million increase due to prior year net payments of $38 million for transaction and related costs as compared to net proceeds of $8 million in 2019.
•$33 million increase in dividends received from equity investments primarily due to increased net income from Fuji Xerox.
•$31 million increase from the settlements of foreign currency derivative contracts associated with our Yen-denominated inventory purchases.
•$85 million decrease from the change in accounts payable primarily related to lower inventory and other spending as well as the year-over-year timing of supplier and vendor payments.
•$25 million decrease from accounts receivable primarily due to the timing of invoicing and collections.
•$23 million decrease due to a lower net run-off of finance receivables.
•$42 million decrease primarily due to two acquisitions.
•$31 million decrease primarily due to the sale of non-core business assets in 2018.
•$19 million increase reflecting lower capital expenditures.
•$300 million increase due to share repurchases.
•$95 million increase from net debt activity.
2019 reflects payments of $406 million on Senior Notes compared to prior year payments of $265 million on Senior Notes, $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $19 million of bridge facility costs.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC Topic 842).
Refer to Note 7 - Supplementary Financial Information in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash.
In first quarter 2019, we repaid approximately $406 million of maturing Senior Notes.
Refer to Note 8 - Accounts Receivable, Net in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our accounts receivable sales arrangements.
We manage our worldwide liquidity using internal cash management practices, which are subject to i) the statutes, regulations and practices of each of the local jurisdictions in which we operate, ii) the legal requirements of the agreements to which we are a party and iii) the policies and cooperation of the financial institutions we utilize to maintain and provide cash management services.
No additional shares were repurchased through July 31, 2019.
We continue to expect full year 2019 share repurchases of at least $600 million.
Refer to Note 17 - Shareholders' Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our share repurchase program.
We are required to recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet.
As permitted, certain of these derivative contracts have been designated for hedge accounting treatment.
Certain of our derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are effective as economic hedges.
These derivative contracts are likewise required to be recognized each period at fair value and therefore do result in some level of volatility.
The related cash flow impacts of all of our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities.
By their nature, all derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of market and credit risk.
The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency exchange and interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged.
We do not believe there is significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments because these transactions are executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions.
Further, our policy is to deal with counterparties having a minimum investment grade or better credit rating.
Credit risk is managed through the continuous monitoring of exposures to such counterparties.
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Refer to "Currency Impact" for a discussion of this measure and its use in our analysis of revenue growth.
Management believes that all of these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period’s results against the corresponding prior period’s results.
However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods.
Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2019, Xerox Corporation issued the following securities in transactions that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Act”).
d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.
d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.
d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.
