References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “company” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise.
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2017 Annual Report.
In 2017 Fujifilm publicly announced it had formed an independent investigation committee ("IIC") to conduct a review of the appropriateness of the accounting practices at Fuji Xerox’s New Zealand subsidiary related to the recovery of receivables associated with certain bundled leasing transactions that occurred in, or prior to, Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year ending March 31, 2016.
In the second quarter 2017, we determined that the misstatements to our Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates in prior years and the first quarter of 2017 identified through the IIC's review were immaterial to our previously issued financial statements.
Accordingly, we revised our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the first quarter of 2017.
The effect of the revision on our previously issued financial statements is provided in the tables below.
Amounts throughout the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been adjusted to incorporate the revised amounts, where applicable.
On January 1, 2018 we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method of adoption.
Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize revenue upon invoicing the customer for the large majority of our revenue.
Additionally, the unit of accounting, that is, the identification of performance obligations, is consistent with prior revenue recognition practice.
These revenues, which are approximately $50 annually, relate to certain analyst services performed in connection with the installation of equipment that are being considered part of the equipment sale performance obligation in 2018.
Accordingly, in 2018 these revenues are now reported as part of Sales.
In the first quarter of 2018, as result of this change, $9 of revenue was recorded as Sales, which would have been previously recorded as Services revenue in prior periods.
However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts.
Substantially all of this adjustment is related to the deferral of sales commissions paid to sales people and agents in connection with the placement of equipment with post sale service arrangements.
We generate revenue through the sale of equipment, supplies and maintenance and printing services.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and is recognized when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer or in the period the customer benefits from the service.
As a result of the application of this practical expedient for the substantial portion of our revenue, the disclosure of the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for our services is not required.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligations in our Document management services arrangements as well the pattern of delivery for those services.
location, revenue is normally recognized when the equipment has been delivered and installed at the customer location.
Revenue from the equipment performance obligation also includes certain analyst training services performed in connection with the installation or delivery of the equipment.
Certain document management services arrangements may also include an embedded lease of equipment.
In these instances the revenues associated with the lease are recognized in accordance with the requirements for lease accounting.
We are not obligated to provide financing and we compete with other third-party leasing companies with respect to the lease financing provided to these end-user customers.
Revenues under bundled arrangements are allocated considering the relative standalone selling prices of the lease and non-lease deliverables included in the bundled arrangement.
Lease deliverables include the equipment, financing, maintenance and other executory costs, while non-lease deliverables generally consist of the supplies and non-maintenance services.
The allocation for the lease deliverables begins by allocating revenues to the maintenance and other executory costs plus a profit thereon.
The remaining amounts are allocated to the equipment and financing elements which are subjected to the accounting estimates noted below under “Leases”.
We believe five years is representative of the period during which the equipment is expected to be economically usable, with normal service, for the purpose for which it is intended.
The range of cash selling prices must be reasonably consistent with the lease selling prices in order for us to determine that such lease prices are indicative of fair value.
These interest rates have generally been adjusted if the rates vary by 25 basis points or more, cumulatively, from the rate last in effect.
The pricing interest rates generally equal the implicit rates within the leases, as corroborated by our comparisons of cash to lease selling prices.
In the first quarter 2018, incremental direct costs of obtaining a contract of $17 were deferred and amortization was $24.
This amount is expected to be amortized over its estimated period of benefit, which we currently estimate to be approximately four years.
We may also incur costs associated with our services arrangements to generate or enhance resources and assets that will be used to satisfy our future performance obligations included in these arrangements.
In addition, we also provide inducements to certain customers in various forms, including contractual credits, which are capitalized and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the term of the contract.
Amounts deferred associated with contract fulfillment costs and inducements were $10 at March 31, 2018.
This update requires the recognition of leased assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases currently classified as operating leases under existing lease guidance.
Short term leases with a term of 12 months or less are not required to be recognized.
The update also requires disclosure of key information about leasing arrangements to increase transparency and comparability among organizations.
The accounting for lessors does not fundamentally change except for changes to conform and align guidance to the lessee guidance as well as to the new revenue recognition guidance in ASU 2014-09.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 on our consolidated financial statements.
The aggregate undiscounted value of our operating lease commitments at December 31, 2017 was approximately $450 and was primarily related to leases of facilities.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses - Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets.
The update impacts financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through net income.
This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted as of January 1, 2019.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows - Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
This update provides specific guidance on eight cash flow classification issues where current guidance is either unclear or does not include specific requirements.
We adopted ASU 2016-15 effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018.
This update includes specific guidance which requires cash collected on beneficial interests received in a sale of receivables be classified as inflows from investing activities.
Currently, those collections are reported in operating cash flows.
We reported $54 of collections on beneficial interests as operating cash inflows on the Statement of Cash Flows for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Accordingly, since the update must be applied retrospectively, our reported 2017 operating and investing cash flows were revised in 2018 to report this amount as investing cash flows.
There is no expected impact to our 2018 cash flows from this reporting change due to the termination of all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and most arrangements in Europe and the final repurchase of previously sold finance receivables during the fourth quarter of 2017.
Additionally, in November 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows - Restricted Cash.
The update requires that amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows.
We adopted ASU 2016-18 effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018 and applied it retrospectively through a revision of previously reported amounts.
Refer to Note 6 - Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash for additional information.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.
This update requires recognition of the income-tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Under current GAAP, recognition of the income tax consequences for asset transfers other than inventory could not be recognized until the asset was sold to a third party.
Restricted cash amounts are classified in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets based on when the cash is expected to be contractually or judicially released.
Amounts to be invoiced in the subsequent quarter for current services provided are included in amounts accrued.
We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon customer payment history and current creditworthiness.
Accounts receivable sales arrangements are utilized in the normal course of business as part of our cash and liquidity management.
During the fourth quarter 2017 we terminated all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and all but one arrangement in Europe.
The remaining facility in Europe enables us to sell accounts receivable associated with our distributor network on an ongoing basis without recourse.
Under this arrangement, we sell our entire interest in the related accounts receivable for cash and no portion of the payment is held back or deferred by the purchaser.
Of the accounts receivable sold and derecognized from our balance sheet, $114 and $161 remained uncollected as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Finance receivables include sales-type leases, direct financing leases and installment loans arising from the marketing of our equipment.
We generally establish customer credit limits and estimate the allowance for credit losses on a country or geographic basis.
Our policy and methodology used to establish our allowance for doubtful accounts has been consistently applied over all periods presented.
Equity in net (loss) income of Fuji Xerox is affected by certain adjustments required to reflect the deferral of profit associated with intercompany sales.
In addition, the Equity in net loss of Fuji Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 includes $79 of after-tax restructuring and other charges.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 additional adjustments and misstatements were identified.
These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC discussed in Note 2 - Correction of Fuji Xerox Misstatement in Prior Period Financial Statements.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries where previous misstatements were identified.
Costs related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the Strategic Transformation program were minimal.
Refer to Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments for additional information regarding the bridge loan facility entered into in connection with the Fuji Xerox Transaction.
We use interest rate swap agreements to manage our interest rate exposure and to achieve a desired proportion of variable and fixed rate debt.
These derivatives may be designated as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges depending on the nature of the risk being hedged.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we had outstanding forward exchange and purchased option contracts with gross notional values of $1,557 and $1,788 respectively, with terms of less than 12 months.
The associated currency exposures being hedged at March 31, 2018 were materially consistent with our year-end currency exposures.
There has not been any material change in our hedging strategy.
The net asset (liability) fair value of these contracts were $4 and $(14) as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Derivative gains (losses) affect the income statement based on whether such derivatives are designated as hedges of underlying exposures.
The following is a summary of derivative gains (losses).
In addition, no amount was recorded for an underlying exposure that did not occur or was not expected to occur.
As of March 31, 2018, a net after-tax gain of $5 was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss associated with our cash flow hedging activity.
Non-designated derivative instruments are primarily instruments used to hedge foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, currency gains (losses), net were $2 and $(3), respectively.
The following table represents assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
The basis for the measurement at fair value in all cases is Level 2 – Significant Other Observable Inputs.
We utilize the income approach to measure the fair value for our derivative assets and liabilities.
Fair value for deferred compensation plan liabilities is based on the fair value of investments corresponding to employees’ investment selections.
The fair value amounts for Cash and cash equivalents and Accounts receivable, net, approximate carrying amounts due to the short maturities of these instruments.
The fair value of Short and Long-term debt was estimated based on the current rates offered to us for debt of similar maturities (Level 2).
The difference between the fair value and the carrying value represents the theoretical net premium or discount we would pay or receive to retire all debt at such date.
The following table summarizes cash contributions to our defined benefit pension plans and retiree health benefit plans.
There are no contributions required in 2018 for our U.S. tax-qualified defined benefit plans to meet the minimum funding requirements, however, our estimated 2018 contributions include $50 of voluntary contributions to these plans.
There were no repurchases of Xerox Common Stock pursuant to Board authorized share repurchase programs during the first quarter 2018.
The labor matters principally relate to claims made by former employees and contract labor for the equivalent payment of all social security and other related labor benefits, as well as consequential tax claims, as if they were regular employees.
As of March 31, 2018, the total amounts related to the unreserved portion of the tax and labor contingencies, inclusive of any related interest, amounted to approximately $585, with the decrease from our December 31, 2017 balance of approximately $600, primarily related to closed cases, partially offset by interest.
With respect to the unreserved balance of $585, the majority has been assessed by management as being remote as to the likelihood of ultimately resulting in a loss to the company.
In connection with the above proceedings, customary local regulations may require us to make escrow cash deposits or post other security of up to half of the total amount in dispute.
There were no liens on any of our Brazilian assets as of March 31, 2018.
Generally, any escrowed amounts would be refundable and any liens would be removed to the extent the matters are resolved in our favor.
Another complaint filed by Darwin Deason, a Xerox shareholder, against Xerox and its directors in the same Court on March 2, 2018 alleges that defendants breached their fiduciary duties by refusing Mr. Deason’s request for a waiver of the deadline for nomination of a new slate of Xerox directors, and seeks to enjoin Xerox and its directors from
enforcing Xerox’s advance notice by-laws, thereby allowing Mr. Deason to proceed with the nominations, as well as costs, fees, and other relief.
On April 27, 2018, the Court issued decisions and orders granting plaintiffs’ preliminary injunction motions, which (i) enjoin Xerox from “taking any further action to consummate the change of control transaction between Xerox and Fuji that was announced on January 31, 2018 pending a final determination of the claims asserted in the underlying action;” (ii) enjoin Xerox from enforcing its advance notice bylaw provision requiring shareholders to nominate directors for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting by December 11, 2017; and (iii) require Xerox to waive such advance notice bylaw provision to permit the noticing of a slate of director nominees for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting, and denying defendants’ motions to dismiss.
On May 1, 2018, Xerox entered into a Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”) with Carl Icahn and Darwin Deason, among others, that would have resolved the pending proxy contest in connection with Xerox’s 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, as well as the ongoing litigation brought by Mr. Deason against Xerox and its directors related to the proposed Fuji Transaction.
The agreement expired by its terms on May 3, 2018 without becoming effective.
At a hearing before the appellate court on May 7, 2018, the appellate court ruled that the appeals would be heard on an expedited basis and granted a partial interim stay allowing Xerox and Fujifilm to take steps to seek regulatory approvals related to the Fuji Transaction pending a ruling from the appellate court on defendants’ motions to stay pending appeal.
Xerox believes the lawsuits are meritless and will vigorously defend them.
At this time, however, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in these litigations.
On May 1, 2017, APERS filed an amended complaint, alleging substantially similar claims and seeking substantially similar relief, but adding David Bywater and Mary Scanlon as defendants.
On June 30, 2017, defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint, and the motions were fully briefed on October 13, 2017.
On March 20, 2018, the Court entered an opinion and order granting the motions, and on March 23, 2018, the Court entered a judgment of dismissal and closed the case.
Xerox will vigorously defend against this matter.
At this time, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in this litigation.
We have issued or provided approximately $366 of guarantees as of March 31, 2018 in the form of letters of credit or surety bonds issued to i) support certain insurance programs; ii) support our obligations related to the Brazil tax and labor contingencies; and iii) support certain contracts, primarily with public sector customers, which require us to provide a surety bond as a guarantee of our performance of contractual obligations.
We believe that our capacity in the surety markets as well as under various credit arrangements (including our Credit Facility) is sufficient to allow us to respond to future requests for proposals that require such credit support.
Refer to Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation for discussion of the Pending Litigation Relating to the Fuji Transaction.
Immediately following the Redemption, Fujifilm will contribute to Xerox the cash it received in the Redemption and all shares of Fuji Xerox still held by Fujifilm after giving effect to the Redemption and, in exchange therefore, Xerox will issue to Fujifilm a number of shares of Xerox common stock such that Fujifilm will own 50.1% of the Xerox common stock, on a fully diluted basis, at the closing of the transactions (the “Closing”), a portion of which will be held in escrow in accordance with the terms of the Transaction Agreements.
As a result of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements (referred to herein as the "combination"), Fuji Xerox will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Xerox and Xerox will become a direct, majority owned subsidiary of Fujifilm (with the remainder of Xerox continuing to be owned by Xerox’s existing shareholders).
As previously announced, the Company and Fujifilm have been in discussions about improving the terms of their announced transaction.
In connection with such discussions, the Company has had correspondence with Fujifilm as to whether Xerox has the right to terminate the Subscription Agreement.
Fuji Xerox has been determined to be the accounting acquirer and Xerox to be the accounting acquiree under the acquisition method of accounting based on various considerations.
As noted above, immediately following the Closing, Fujifilm, the former parent of Fuji Xerox, is expected to own approximately 50.1% of the fully diluted capital stock of new Fuji Xerox and the other Xerox shareholders are expected to own approximately 49.9%.
Further, pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement, to be entered into by Xerox and Fujifilm at Closing (the “Shareholders Agreement”), the board of directors of new Fuji Xerox will have twelve directors, which will initially be composed of seven individuals designated by Fujifilm (including the current CEO of Xerox) and five individuals from among the members of the board of directors of Xerox immediately prior to Closing designated by Xerox in consultation with and subject to reasonable approval by Fujifilm.
Accordingly, the combination is expected to be accounted for as a reverse acquisition as per ASC Topic 805-40 "Business Combinations - Reverse Acquisitions".
The completion of the Fujifilm Transactions will require Xerox shareholder approval as well as customary regulatory approvals, filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, tax considerations, and securing any necessary financing.
Until the combination is complete, each of Xerox, Fuji Xerox and Fujifilm will continue to be separate, independent organizations and will operate as usual.
On January 31, 2018, Xerox entered into a Commitment Letter with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., which provides a commitment, subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, for a $2.5 billion unsecured bridge loan facility.
This facility would be available for Xerox to pay the special one-time cash dividend of $2.5 billion to existing shareholders of Xerox as described herein.
Xerox has not borrowed funds nor does it currently plan to borrow funds from this facility, rather, prior to closing, Xerox intends to secure alternative financing to meet its obligation to pay the special dividend.
At March 31, 2018, we had approximately $11 of debt issuance costs deferred in connection with this facility, which are currently being amortized over the remainder of the year, and another $6 was paid in the second quarter 2018, which will also be deferred and amortized.
Xerox may also secure financing to fund approximately $350 required to settle certain of Xerox's obligations in respect of unfunded supplemental pension plans and deferred compensation plans which will accelerate in connection with the combination (such accelerated payments, the "change-in-control payments").
The information set forth under Note 19 – Contingencies and Litigation in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated by reference in answer to this Item.
