fls.txt



item1.txt
consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use by Teradyne.
As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne does not have material leases that have not yet commenced.
The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
The ROU asset is initially measured as the amount of lease liability, adjusted for any initial lease costs, prepaid lease payments, and reduced by any lease incentives.
non-lease components such as common area maintenance.
one-step impairment test will be applied to goodwill at all reporting units, even those with zero or negative carrying amounts.
Entities will be required to disclose the amount of goodwill at reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.
The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020.
The contingent consideration related to revenue for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 in the amount of $30.8 million was paid in March 2019.


item2.txt
10-Q which are not historical facts, so called “forward-looking statements,” are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
We are a leading global supplier of automation equipment for test and industrial applications.
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
The maximum payment for the remaining MiR contingent consideration that could be paid is $84.1 million.
On January 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
RealWear, a private company, develops and sells advanced wearable technology including industrial, hands-free, head-mounted augmented reality devices that make the workplace safer and more productive.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.
We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments.


