fls.txt



item1.txt
consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Improvements,” that allowed for a cumulative effect adjustment in the period of adoption.
Teradyne also utilized the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance which included the carry-forward of historical lease classification.
Operating lease liabilities were calculated using the discount rate on January 1, 2019.
The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when Teradyne has the right to control the use of an identified asset.
As of March 31, 2019, Teradyne does not have material leases that have not yet commenced.
The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.
The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020.
MiR’s products will help expand the Industrial Automation segment, which is a key component of Teradyne’s growth strategy.
Pro forma results for the three months ended April 1, 2018 were adjusted to exclude $0.6 million of acquisition related costs.


item2.txt
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company.
Contingent consideration for 2018 was $31 million and was paid in March 2019.
MiR and Energid are included in our Industrial Automation segment.
Lemsys is included in our Semiconductor Test segment.
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when we have the right to control the use of an identified asset.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.
We determine if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset.
As we are typically unable to determine the implicit rate, we use an incremental borrowing rate based on the lease term and economic environment at commencement date.


item3.txt
There were no material changes in our exposure to market risk from those set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We intend to repurchase $500 million in 2019.


