fls.txt



item1.txt
consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
In accordance with ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
Teradyne determines performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
Teradyne considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation.
Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer.
For transactions which do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, Teradyne will defer revenue recognition until customer acceptance.
Teradyne also recognized $4.3 million in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.


item2.txt
During the first quarter of 2018, demand outlook for mobile device test capacity in 2018 declined sharply for our Semiconductor Test business.
The remaining maximum contingent consideration that could be paid in 2019 is $25 million.
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total preliminary purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
MiR and Energid will be included in our Industrial Automation segment.
In accordance with ASC 606, we recognize revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
We considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
We use standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
Any discounts from standalone selling price are spread over each performance obligation.


item3.txt
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of hypothetical 10% changes of Teradyne’s stock price as of the end of the first quarter of 2018 and the estimated impact on the fair value of the Notes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In March 2018, the United States Trade Representative announced proposed tariffs on a list of products manufactured in China.


