Market Risk
Currency Exchange Rates
We report our results in U.S. Dollars. Changes in currency exchange rates compared to the U.S. Dollar can have a material impact on our results when the financial statements of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars. The functional currency of our operations is primarily the U.S. Dollar. Certain operations use the Swiss Franc or the local currency of the country as their functional currencies. Accordingly, unrealized currency gains or losses resulting from the translation of net assets or liabilities denominated in other currencies to the U.S. Dollar are accumulated in the cumulative translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income (loss) in shareholders' equity.
We are exposed to currency exchange rate risk as we transact business in multiple currencies, including exposure related to anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. We transact business in over 30 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to operations are the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Swiss Franc, Australian Dollar, Taiwan New Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen and Mexican Peso. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, approximately 51% of our sales were in non-U.S. denominated currencies, with 24% of our sales denominated in Euro. The mix of our operating expenses by currency is significantly different from the mix of our sales, with a larger portion denominated in U.S. Dollar and less denominated in Euro and other currencies. A strengthening U.S. Dollar has more unfavorable impact on our sales compare to the favorable impact on our operating expense, resulting in an adverse impact on our operating results. 
Derivatives
We enter into​ cash flow hedge​ contracts to ​protect​ against exchange rate exposure​ of ​forecasted inventory purchases. These hedging contracts mature within four months. Gains and losses in the fair value of the effective portion of the hedges are deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, at which time the gains or losses are reclassified to cost of goods sold. Cash flows from such hedges are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. As of September 30, 2018, the notional amounts of currency exchange forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases were $89.1 million. As of March 31, 2018, there were no currency forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases. Deferred realized and unrealized gain and loss was not material as of September 30, 2018.
