Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Material Weakness in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting
Management’s Plan to Remediate the Material Weakness
•The development and implementation of a new estimation model of breakage related to customer incentive, cooperative marketing and pricing programs in the EMEA region; 
•The design and implementation of related controls over the new estimation model; and
•Enhancements to the process to periodically evaluate and appropriately respond to changing business circumstances that may impact control activities, specifically in the area of the accuracy of the allowances and accruals. 
Our management believes the foregoing efforts will effectively remediate the material weakness; however, the material weakness cannot be considered remediated until the control has operated for a sufficient period of time and until management has concluded, through testing of several instances, that the control is operating effectively. The Company expects to remediate this material weakness by the end of fiscal year 2018.
Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls
The Company's management, including the CEO and CFO, does not expect that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. Internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in internal control over financial reporting, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Exhibit Index
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
