 Note 1 — The Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates
Logitech International S.A, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, ("Logitech" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets products that allow people to connect through music, gaming, video, computing, and other digital platforms.
The Company sells its products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers and indirect sales through distributors.
Business Acquisitions
In August 2017, the Company acquired the ASTRO Gaming business. In November 2017, the Company also made a small acquisition. See "Note 2 - Business Acquisitions" for more information. 
Basis of Presentation
The condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Logitech and its subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements. They should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 26, 2017. 
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented. Operating results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018, or any future periods.
Certain amounts from the comparative period in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the condensed consolidated financial statement presentation as of and for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Changes in Significant Accounting Policies
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below, there have been no substantial changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2015-11, "Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (Topic 330)" ("ASU 2015-11"). Topic 330 previously required an entity to measure inventory at the lower of cost or market, with market value represented by replacement cost, net realizable value or net realizable value less a normal profit margin. ASU 2015-11 requires an entity to measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value and is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, "Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (Topic
350)" ("ASU 2017-04"), which removes Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. ASU 2017-04 is effective for annual or any interim goodwill impairments in annual periods beginning December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
Modification Accounting" ("ASU 2017-09"), which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions
of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. ASU 2017-09 is
Recent Accounting Pronouncements to be Adopted
The Company expects to complete its analysis of Topic 606 and reasonably estimate the impact to its consolidated financial statements when its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018 is filed. The Company will continue to monitor additional changes, modifications, clarifications or interpretations being undertaken by the FASB, which may impact its current conclusions. It is possible that during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company may identify additional areas which may result in material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" ("ASU 2016-02"), which requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities arising from operating leases in the statement of financial position. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the full effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and will adopt this standard effective April 1, 2019.
The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2016-16 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements and will adopt this standard effective April 1, 2018.
Note 2 — Business Acquisitions
ASTRO Acquisition
On August 11, 2017 (the "Acquisition Date"), the Company acquired certain assets and liabilities constituting the ASTRO Gaming business ("ASTRO") from AG Acquisition Corporation for a purchase price of $85.0 million in cash (the "ASTRO Acquisition"). ASTRO is a leading console gaming accessory brand with a history of producing award-winning headsets for professional gamers and enthusiasts. ASTRO provides a strong growth platform in the console gaming accessories market. 
Goodwill related to the transaction is primarily attributable to opportunities and economies of scale from combining the operations and technologies of Logitech and ASTRO. Goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The fair value of the inventory acquired is estimated at its net realizable value, which uses the estimated selling prices, less the cost of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for the selling efforts. The difference between the fair value of the inventories and the amount recorded by ASTRO immediately before the acquisition date is $0.8 million, which will be recognized in "amortization of intangibles assets and purchase accounting effect on inventory" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations upon the sale of the acquired inventory. 
The Company included ASTRO's estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in its condensed consolidated balance sheets beginning on the Acquisition Date. The results of operations for ASTRO for this partial quarter have been included in, but are not material to, the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations from the Acquisition Date. Pro forma results of operations for the ASTRO Acquisition have not been presented because they are not material to the condensed consolidated statements of operations. 
Intangible assets acquired as a result of the ASTRO Acquisition are being amortized over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method of amortization. Amortization of acquired developed technology of $0.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 is included in "amortization of intangible assets and purchase accounting effect of inventory" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Amortization of the acquired customer relationships and trade name of $1.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 is included in "amortization of intangible assets and acquisition-related costs" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Developed technology relates to existing ASTRO gaming headset products. The economic useful life was determined based on the technology cycle related to developed technology of existing products, as well as the cash flows anticipated over the forecasted periods. 
Customer relationships represent the fair value of future projected revenue that will be derived from sales of products to existing customers of ASTRO. The economic useful life was determined based on historical customer turnover rates and industry benchmarks.
Trade name relates to the “ASTRO” trade name. The economic useful life was determined based on the expected life of the trade name and the cash flows anticipated over the forecasted periods. 
The fair values of developed technology and trade name were estimated using the relief-from-royalty method, an income approach (Level 3), which estimates the cost savings that accrue to the owner of the intangible assets that would otherwise be payable as royalties or license fees on revenues earned through the use of the asset. A royalty rate is applied to the projected revenues associated with the intangible assets to determine the amount of savings, which is then discounted to determine the fair value. The developed technology and trade name were valued using royalty rates of 10% and 2%, respectively, and both were discounted at a rate of 13%.
The fair value of customer relationships was estimated using the excess earnings method, an income approach (Level 3), which converts projected revenues and costs into cash flows. To reflect the fact that certain other assets contributed to the cash flows generated, the returns for these contributory assets were removed to arrive at estimated cash flows solely attributable to the customer relationships, which were discounted at a rate of 13%.
The Company believes the value of purchased intangible assets recorded above represents the fair values of, and approximates the amounts a market participant would pay for, these intangible assets as of the Acquisition Date.
The Company incurred acquisition-related costs for the ASTRO Acquisition of approximately $0.3 million and $1.3 million for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively. The acquisition-related costs are included in "amortization of intangible assets and acquisition-related costs" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
For the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, ASTRO contributed $33.5 million and $36.2 million to net sales, respectively, representing approximately 4% of the net sales of the Company for the three-month period and 2% for the nine-month period. 
In November 2017, the Company also made a small acquisition for a total consideration of $5.2 million, including cash acquired of $0.9 million. $1.0 million of the total consideration was retained by the Company for the purpose of ensuring the seller's representations, warranties and covenants. 
Share equivalents attributable to outstanding stock options and restricted stock units of 0.5 million and 1.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 1.1 million and 2.8 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, were anti-dilutive and excluded from the calculation of diluted net income per share.
Note 4 — Employee Benefit Plans
Employee Share Purchase Plans and Stock Incentive Plans
As of December 31, 2017, the Company offers the 2006 ESPP (2006 Employee Share Purchase Plan (Non-U.S.)), the 1996 ESPP (1996 Employee Share Purchase Plan (U.S.)), the 2006 Plan (2006 Stock Incentive Plan) and the 2012 Plan (2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan), each as amended.
As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company capitalized $0.8 million and $0.6 million of share-based compensation expense to inventory, respectively.
Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans or non-retirement post-employment benefits covering substantially all of their employees. Benefits are provided based on employees’ years of service and earnings, or in accordance with applicable employee benefit regulations. The Company’s practice is to fund amounts sufficient to meet the requirements set forth in the applicable employee benefit and tax regulations. The cost recorded of $2.3 million and $2.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $6.9 million and $8.4 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, was primarily related to service costs.
Note 5 — Income Taxes
The income tax provision for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $20.0 million based on an effective income tax rate of 19.9% of pre-tax income, compared to an income tax provision of $1.6 million based on an effective income tax rate of 1.7% of pre-tax income for the three months ended December 31, 2016. The income 
tax provision for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was $18.7 million based on an effective income tax rate of 9.7% of pre-tax income, compared to an income tax provision of $10.3 million based on an effective income tax rate of 5.8% for the nine months ended December 31, 2016. 
ASC 740 requires recognition of the effects of tax law changes in the period of enactment. Notwithstanding that the effective date of the Tax Act for most provisions is January 1, 2018, such effects must be recognized in December 2017 financial statements. In accordance to the new tax legislation, the Company applied a blended federal income tax rate of 31.6% to its operations in the United States effective at the beginning of the fiscal year based on a pro-rated percentage of the number of days before and after January 1, 2018. Furthermore, the Company recorded an income tax charge of $19.9 million from the estimated remeasurement of federal deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2017 to reflect the effects of the enacted changes in tax rate and an income tax benefit of $4.1 million from assessment of valuation allowance against tax credits due to changes in tax laws. These amounts account for the change in the effective income tax rate in the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The estimated remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities was based on tax rates generally at 31.6% and 21% depending on the timing of when the individual deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to recover or settle in the future. The net provisional charge from deferred tax remeasurement and assessment of valuation allowance is based on currently available information and interpretations which are continuing to evolve. The Company continues to analyze additional information and guidance related to certain aspects of the Tax Act, such as limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation, conformity or changes by state taxing authorities in response to the Tax Act, and the final determination of the net deferred tax assets subject to the remeasurement and related impacts to the assessment of valuation allowance. The prospects of supplemental legislation or regulatory processes to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, or evolving technical interpretations of the tax law, may cause the final impact from the Tax Act to differ from the recorded amounts. The Company continues to appropriately refine such amounts within the measurement period allowed by Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No.118, which will be completed no later than the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The change in the effective income tax rate in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year is primarily due to the recognition of excess tax benefits of $10.8 million after adoption of ASU 2016-09 and income tax benefit from the reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations are largely offset by income tax provision from the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities in the third quarter. In the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, there was a discrete income tax benefit of $6.0 million and $7.9 million, respectively, from the reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations. In the same periods ended December 31, 2016, the income tax benefit from the reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations was $9.4 million and $11.1 million, respectively. 
As of December 31 and March 31, 2017, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits due to uncertain tax positions was $67.3 million and $63.7 million, respectively, all of which would affect the effective income tax rate if recognized.
The Company had $34.4 million in non-current income taxes payable and $0.1 million in current income taxes payable, including interest and penalties, related to its income tax liability for uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2017, compared to $51.8 million in non-current income taxes payable and $1.5 million in current income taxes payable as of March 31, 2017. The Company applied to a settlement program and paid $1.9 million to the tax authorities in a foreign jurisdiction in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax positions in income tax expense. As of December 31 and March 31, 2017, the Company had $2.1 million and $3.0 million, respectively, of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.
•Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. This includes certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs.
On April 20, 2016 (the "Jaybird Acquisition Date"), the Company acquired all of the equity interests of Jaybird, LLC (“Jaybird”). The acquisition-related contingent consideration liability arising from the Jaybird acquisition represented the future potential earn-out payments of up to $45.0 million based on the achievement of certain net revenue targets over approximately a two-year period. If the net revenue targets were met, the Company would have paid a maximum of $25.0 million and $20.0 million in fiscal years 2018 and 2019, respectively. The fair value of the earn-out as of the Jaybird Acquisition Date was $18.0 million, which was determined by using a Monte Carlo Simulation that includes significant unobservable inputs such as a risk-adjusted discount rate of 16% and projected net sales of Jaybird over the earn-out period. The fair value was remeasured at each reporting period based on the inputs on the date of remeasurement, with the change in fair value recognized as "change in fair value of contingent consideration for business acquisition" in the operating expense section in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Projected net sales were based on the Company's internal projections, including analysis of the target markets. In October 2017, before the issuance of the condensed financial statements for the three months ended September 30, 2017, the Company and the sellers of Jaybird entered into an agreement fully, irrevocably and unconditionally releasing the Company from the earn-out rights and payments in exchange for $5.0 million in cash, which approximated the fair value of the contingent consideration as of September 30, 2017. As a result, the 
contingent consideration was transferred out from financial liability with Level 3 inputs as of September 30, 2017 as fair value measurement was no longer required. The Company paid the $5.0 million in November 2017 and included the same as financing activities on its condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Investment Securities
The marketable securities for the Company's deferred compensation plan are recorded at a fair value of $18.0 million and $15.0 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, based on quoted market prices. Quoted market prices are observable inputs that are classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy. Unrealized trading gains (losses) related to trading securities for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were not material and are included in other income (expense), net in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
The Company’s non-marketable cost method investments, and non-financial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at fair value only upon initial recognition or if an impairment is recognized. There were no material impairments of long-lived assets during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 or 2016.
Non-marketable cost method investments. These investments are classified as Level 3 due to the absence of quoted market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity, and the fact that inputs used to measure fair value are unobservable and require management's judgment. When certain events or circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, the Company revalues the investments using various assumptions, including the financial metrics and ratios of comparable public companies. 
The primary investment included in non-marketable investments is the Company’s investment in Series A Preferred Stock of Lifesize Inc. ("Lifesize") recorded at the fair value of $5.6 million on the date of the Lifesize divestiture. 
The aggregate recorded amount of cost method investments included in other assets as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017 was $7.1 million and $7.4 million, respectively.
Under certain agreements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company is allowed to net settle transactions of the same type with a single net amount payable by one party to the other. However, the Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis on the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017.
The Company enters into cash flow hedge contracts to protect against exchange rate exposure of forecasted inventory purchases. These hedging contracts mature within four months. Gains and losses in the fair value of the effective portion of the hedges are deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, at which time the gains or losses are reclassified to cost of goods sold. Cash flows from such hedges are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Hedging relationships are discontinued when hedging contract is no longer eligible for hedge accounting, or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when Company removes hedge designation for the contract. Gains and losses in the fair value of the effective portion of the discontinued hedges continue to be reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, unless it is probable that the forecasted inventory purchases will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time thereafter. In all periods presented herein, there have been no forecasted inventory purchases that were probable to not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time thereafter. The notional amounts of foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases were $135.0 million and $59.4 million as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, respectively. The Company estimates that $1.2 million of net losses related to its cash flow hedges included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of December 31, 2017 will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
Other Derivatives
The Company also enters into foreign currency exchange forward and swap contracts to reduce the short-term effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of its subsidiaries. These contracts generally mature within one month. The primary risk managed by using forward and swap contracts is the currency exchange rate risk. The gains or losses on these contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations based on the changes in fair value. The notional amounts of these contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017 were $89.0 million and $56.7 million, respectively. Open forward and swap contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017 consisted of contracts in Mexican Pesos, Japanese Yen, British Pounds, Taiwanese Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Australian Dollars and Chinese Renminbi to be settled at future dates at pre-determined exchange rates. 
The fair value of all foreign currency exchange forward and swap contracts is determined based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward rates. Cash flows from these contracts are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. 
Note 9 — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The Company conducts its impairment analysis of the goodwill annually at December 31 and as necessary, if changes in facts and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the Company’s reporting units may be less than its carrying amount. 
The Company had several uncommitted, unsecured bank lines of credit aggregating $62.1 million as of December 31, 2017. There are no financial covenants under these lines of credit with which the Company must comply. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had outstanding bank guarantees of $44.2 million under these lines of credit. There was no borrowing outstanding under these lines of credit as of December 31, 2017 or March 31, 2017.
Note 11 — Commitments and Contingencies
Product Warranties
All of the Company’s peripherals products sold are covered by warranty to be free from defects in material and workmanship. The warranty period varies by product and by region.
Guarantees
Logitech Europe S.A., one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, guaranteed payments of certain third-party contract manufacturers’ purchase obligations. As of December 31, 2017, the maximum amount of this guarantee was $3.8 million, of which $1.7 million of guaranteed purchase obligations were outstanding.
The Company indemnifies certain of its suppliers and customers for losses arising from matters such as intellectual property disputes and product safety defects, subject to certain restrictions. The scope of these indemnities varies, but in some instances, includes indemnification for damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees. As of December 31, 2017, no amounts have been accrued for these indemnification provisions. The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid under its indemnification arrangements.
The Company also indemnifies its current and former directors and certain of its current and former officers. Certain costs incurred for providing such indemnification may be recoverable under various insurance policies. The Company is unable to reasonably estimate the maximum amount that could be payable under these arrangements because these exposures are not limited, the obligations are conditional in nature and the facts and circumstances involved in any situation that might arise are variable.
The stock purchase agreement entered on December 28, 2015 in connection with the investment by three venture capital firms in Lifesize contains representations, warranties and covenants of Logitech and Lifesize, Inc. to the Investors. Logitech has agreed, subject to certain limitations, to indemnify the Investors and certain persons related to the Investors for certain losses resulting from breaches of or inaccuracies in such representations, warranties and covenants as well as certain other obligations, including third-party expenses, restructuring costs and pre-closing tax obligations of Lifesize. 
From time to time the Company is involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of its business. The Company is currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. The Company believes that these matters lack merit and intends to vigorously defend against them. Based on currently available information, the Company does not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that the Company’s defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations in a particular period. Any claims or proceedings against the Company, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors. Any failure to obtain a necessary license or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims, could adversely affect the Company’s business.
Note 12 — Shareholders’ Equity
In March 2014, the Company’s Board of Directors approved the 2014 share buyback program, which authorizes the Company to use up to $250.0 million to purchase its own shares. This share buyback program expired in April 2017.
In March 2017, the Company's Board of Directors approved the 2017 share buyback program, which authorizes the Company to use up to $250.0 million to purchase up to 17.3 million shares of its own shares following the expiration date of the 2014 share buyback program. The Company's share buyback program is expected to remain in effect for a period of three years. Shares may be repurchased from time to time on the open market, through block trades or otherwise. Purchases may be started or stopped at any time without prior notice depending on market conditions and other factors.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, 0.6 million and 3.3 million shares, respectively, were repurchased for $20.4 million and $63.8 million, respectively.
Cash Dividend on Shares of Common 
During the nine months ended December 31, 2017, the Company declared and paid cash dividends of CHF 0.61 (USD equivalent of $0.63) per common share, totaling $104.2 million on the Company's outstanding common stock. During the nine months ended December 31, 2016, the Company declared and paid cash dividends of CHF 0.56 (USD equivalent of $0.57) per common share, totaling $93.1 million on the Company's outstanding common stock.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of the Company's shareholders.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The Company has determined that it operates in a single operating segment that encompasses the design, manufacturing and marketing of peripherals for PCs, tablets and other digital platforms. Operating performance measures are provided directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), who is considered to be the Company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”). The CEO periodically reviews information such as net sales and operating income (loss) to make business decisions. These operating performance measures do not include restructuring charges (credits), net, share-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, charges from the purchase accounting effect on inventory, acquisition-related costs, investigation and related expenses, or change in fair value of contingent consideration from business acquisition.
Sales are attributed to countries on the basis of the customers’ locations. 
The United States and Germany each represented more than 10% of the total consolidated net sales for each of the periods presented herein. No other countries represented more than 10% of the Company’s total consolidated net sales for the periods presented herein.
Switzerland, the Company’s home domicile, represented 1% and 2% of the Company’s total consolidated net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, and 2% for each of the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016.
Two customer groups of the Company each represented more than 10% of the total consolidated net sales for each of the periods presented herein. 
Property, plant and equipment, net in the United States and China were $36.6 million and $37.8 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2017, and $37.1 million and $37.2 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2017. No other countries represented more than 10% of the Company’s total consolidated property, plant and equipment, net as of December 31, 2017 or March 31, 2017. Property, plant and equipment, net in Switzerland, the Company’s home domicile, were $2.0 million and $2.1 million as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, respectively.
•Identify new features, functionality and opportunities;
•Anticipate technology, market trends and consumer preferences;
•Develop innovative, high-quality, and reliable new products and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner;
•Distinguish our products from those of our competitors; and
•Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers.
The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process is also lengthy and costly. There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments. If we fail to accurately anticipate technological trends or our users’ needs or preferences, are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost-effective and timely fashion or are unable to appropriately increase production to fulfill customer demand, we will be unable to successfully introduce new products and services into the market or compete with other providers. Even if we complete the development of our new products and services in a cost-effective and timely manner, they may not be competitive with products developed by others, they may not achieve acceptance in the market at anticipated levels or at all, they may not be profitable or, even if they are profitable, they may not achieve margins as high as our expectations or as high as the margins we have achieved historically.
We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform. Consumer demand for PCs, especially in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia, has been declining and we expect it to continue to decline in the future. As a result, consumer demand for PC peripherals in many of our markets is slowing and in some cases declining and we expect this trend may continue.
Our sales of PC peripherals might be less than we expect due to a decline in business or economic conditions in one or more of the countries or regions, a greater decline than we expect in demand for our products, our inability to successfully execute our sales and marketing plans, or for other reasons. Global economic concerns, such as the varying pace of global economic recovery, political uncertainties created by policy changes such as Brexit, the impact of sovereign debt issues in Europe, the impact of low oil prices on Russia and conflicts with either local or 
global financial implications in places such as Russia and Ukraine, and economic slowdown in China, create unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook.
As a result, we are focusing more of our attention, which may include the personnel, financial resources and management attention, on product innovations and growth opportunities, including products for the consumption of digital music, products for gaming, products for video collaboration, products for the digital home, and on other potential growth opportunities. Our investments may not result in the growth we expect, or when we expect it, for a variety of reasons including those described below.
 Music. We are focused on products for the consumption of digital music as a sales growth area. Competition in the mobile speaker and headphone categories is intense, and we expect it to increase. If we are not able to grow our existing and acquired product lines, introduce differentiated product and marketing strategies to separate ourselves from competitors, our mobile speaker and audio headphone efforts will not be successful, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.
Gaming. We are building a diverse business that features a variety of gaming peripherals. The rapidly evolving and changing market and increasing competition increase the risk that we do not allocate our resources in line with the market and our business and our results of operations could be adversely affected.
Video Collaboration. While we view the small and medium sized user groups' opportunity to be large and relatively unaddressed, this is a new and evolving market segment that we are developing. If the market opportunity proves to exist, we expect increasing competition from the large competitors in the video conferencing market as well as potential new entrants. 
Smart Home. While we are a leader in programmable, performance remote controls for home entertainment, the smart home market is still in its early stages and it is not yet clear when the category will produce dynamic growth or which products will succeed and be able to take advantage of market growth or to help define and grow the market. Despite its early stages, the smart home market already is experiencing increasing competition from strong competitors.
Each of these growth categories and many of the growth opportunities that we may pursue are subject to constant and rapidly changing and evolving technologies and evolving industry standards and may be replaced by new technology concepts or platforms. Some of these growth categories and opportunities are also characterized by short product cycles, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and rapidly changing and evolving consumer preferences with respect to design and features that require calculated risk-taking and fast responsiveness and result in short opportunities to establish a market presence. In addition, some of these growth categories and opportunities are characterized by price competition, erosion of premium-priced segments and average selling prices, and sensitivity to general economic conditions and cyclical downturns. If we do not develop innovative and reliable peripherals and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner that are attractive to consumers in these markets, if we are otherwise unsuccessful entering and competing in these growth categories or responding to the rapidly changing conditions in these growth categories, if the growth categories in which we invest our limited resources do not emerge as the opportunities or do not produce the growth or profitability we expect, or when we expect it, or if we do not correctly anticipate changes and evolutions in technology and platforms, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.
We have developed long-term value in our brands and have invested significantly in design and in our existing and new brands over the past several years. We believe that our design and brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business and that maintaining and enhancing our brands is very important to our future growth and success. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will require significant investments and will depend largely on our future design, products and marketing, which may not be successful and may damage our brands. Our brands and reputation are also dependent on third parties, such as suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers, product 
The peripherals industry is intensely competitive. Most of our product categories are characterized by large, well-financed competitors, short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets. We experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, including brands owned by retail customers known as house brands. In addition, our competitors may offer customers terms and conditions that may be more favorable than our terms and conditions and may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs, which could impact our revenues and operating margins.
In recent years, we have expanded the categories of products we sell and entered new markets. We remain alert to opportunities in new categories and markets. As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories as well as in future categories we might enter. Many of these companies, such as Microsoft, Apple, Google, Cisco, Sony Corporation, Polycom, Samsung and others, have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have.
Microsoft, Apple and Google are leading producers of operating systems, hardware and applications with which our mice, keyboards and other products are designed to operate. In addition, Microsoft, Apple and Google each has significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than Logitech, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base. As a result, Microsoft, Apple and Google each may be able to improve the functionality of its products, if any, or may choose to show preference to our competitors' products, to correspond with ongoing enhancements to its operating systems, hardware and software applications before we are able to make such improvements. This ability could provide Microsoft, Apple, Google or other competitors with significant lead-time advantages. In addition, Microsoft, Apple, Google or other competitors may be able to offer pricing advantages on bundled hardware and software products that we may not be able to offer, and may be financially positioned to exert significant downward pressure on product prices and upward pressure on promotional incentives in order to gain market share.
Mobile Speakers. Our competitors for Bluetooth wireless speakers include Bose, JBL, Harmon Kardon, and Beats Electronics. Bose is our largest competitor. Apple's ownership of Beats Electronics may impact our access to shelf space in Apple retail stores and adversely impact our ability to succeed in this important growth market. Personal assistance and other devices that offer music, such as Amazon's Echo, may also compete with our products. Amazon is also a significant distributor for our products.
Competitors for our Gaming products include Razer USA Ltd., Corsair, SteelSeries, and Turtle Beach.
Our competitors for Video Collaboration products include Cisco Systems, Inc., Polycom, Inc., and AVer Information Inc.
Competition in the home control market also exists in form of home automation platforms such as Smart Things (owned by Samsung), Amazon with their Echo product, Google Home and Nest (owned by Alphabet), Wink and many other startups. Many of these products and brands are partners with Logitech as well via integrations with Harmony remotes.
Pointing Devices. Microsoft Corporation and HP Inc. are our main competitors. We also experience competition and pricing pressure from less-established brands, including house brands, which we believe have impacted our market share in some sales geographies.
PC Webcams. Our primary competitors for PC webcams are Microsoft Corporation and HP Inc. with various other manufacturers taking smaller market share. The worldwide market for consumer PC webcams has been declining, and as a result, fewer competitors have entered the market.
Our peripherals business has historically been built largely around the PC platform, which over time became relatively open, and its inputs and operating system standardized. With the growth of mobile, tablet, gaming and other computer devices, the number of platforms has grown, and with it the complexity and increased need for us to have business and contractual relationships with the platform owners in order to produce products compatible with these platforms. Our product portfolio includes current and future products designed for use with third-party platforms or software, such as the Apple iPad, iPod, iPhone and Siri, the Android phones and tablets, Google Home and Amazon Alexa. Our business in these categories relies on our access to the platforms of third parties, some of whom are our competitors. Platform owners that are competitors have a competitive advantage in designing products for their platforms and may produce peripherals or other products that work better, or are perceived to work better, than our products in connection with those platforms. As we expand the number of platforms and software applications with which our products are compatible, we may not be successful in launching products for those platforms or software applications, we may not be successful in establishing strong relationships with the new platform or software owners, or we may negatively impact our ability to develop and produce high-quality products on a timely basis for those platforms and software applications or we may otherwise adversely affect our relationships with existing platform or software owners.
In addition, during fiscal year 2016 we increased the percentage of our products that we manufacture in our own facilities. This increases the inventory that we purchase and maintain to support such manufacturing. We are also utilizing sea shipments more extensively than air delivery, which will cause us to build and ship products to our distribution centers earlier and will also result in increases in inventory. These operational shifts increase the risk that we have excess or obsolete inventory if we do not accurately forecast product demand.
Our success largely depends on our ability to hire, retain, integrate and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified personnel, including senior management. Our strategy and our ability to innovate, design and produce new products, sell products, maintain operating margins and control expenses depend on key personnel that may be difficult to replace.
Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management and international personnel. From time to time, we experience turnover in some of our senior management positions.
We compensate our employees through a combination of salary, bonuses, benefits and equity compensation. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel, including software and hardware engineers, is highly competitive. If we fail to provide competitive compensation to our employees, it will be difficult to retain, hire and integrate qualified employees and contractors, and we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. If we do not retain our senior managers or other key employees for any reason, we risk losing institutional knowledge, experience, expertise and other benefits of continuity as well as the ability to attract and retain other key employees. In addition, we must carefully balance the size of our employee base with our current infrastructure, management resources and anticipated operating cash flows. If we are unable to manage the size of our employee base, particularly engineers, we may fail to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner. If our revenue growth or employee levels vary significantly, our operating cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price, including declines in our stock prices in the past year, may also affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted equity incentives. Logitech’s practice has been to provide equity incentives to its employees, but the number of shares available for equity grants is limited. We may find it difficult to provide competitive equity incentives, and our ability to hire, retain and motivate key personnel may suffer.
As we expand within and into new product categories, our products in those categories may have lower gross margins than in our traditional product categories. Consumer demand in these product categories, based on style, color and other factors, tends to be less predictable and tends to vary more across geographic markets. As a result, we may face higher up-front investments, inventory costs associated with attempting to anticipate consumer preferences, and increased inventory write-offs. If we are unable to offset these potentially lower margins by enhancing the margins in our more traditional product categories, our profitability may be adversely affected.
As we continue our efforts to lower our costs and improve our operating leverage, we may or may not fully realize our goals.
Our strategy over the past several years has been based in part on simplifying the organization, reducing operating costs through global workforce reductions and a reduction in the complexity of our product portfolio, with the goal of better aligning costs with our current business. We restructured our business in fiscal years 2014 through 2016, and we may continue to divest or discontinue non-strategic product categories. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and completed our exit from the OEM business. In addition, we are continuing the rationalization of our general and administrative expense, infrastructure and indirect procurement to reduce operating expenses.
As part of the restructuring plans, we reduced the size of our product portfolio and the assortment of similar products at similar price points within each product category over the past several fiscal years. While we are constantly replacing products and are dependent on the success of our new products, this product portfolio simplification has made us even more dependent on the success of the new products that we are introducing.
As we attempt to grow our business in strategic product categories and emerging market geographies, we will consider growth through acquisition or investment. We will evaluate acquisition opportunities that could provide us with additional product or service offerings or with additional industry expertise, assets and capabilities. For example, we acquired ASTRO Gaming to expand into the console gaming market, we acquired Jaybird to expand into the wireless audio wearables market, and we acquired Saitek to expand into the gaming flight simulation and farm simulation market. Acquisitions could result in difficulties integrating acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls, personnel and management teams and result in the diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could be harmed. Acquisitions could also result in the assumption of known and unknown liabilities, dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, disputes over earn-outs or other litigation, and adverse effects on relationships with our and our target’s employees, customers and suppliers. Moreover, our acquisitions may not be successful in achieving our desired strategy, product, financial or other objectives or expectations, which would also cause our business to suffer. Acquisitions can also lead to large non-cash charges that can have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of write-offs for items such as future impairments of intangible assets and goodwill or the recording of share-based compensation. Several of our past acquisitions have not been successful and have led to impairment charges, including $122.7 million and $214.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charges in fiscal years 2015 and 2013, respectively, related to our Lifesize video conferencing business which is reported in discontinued operations. Acquisitions and divestitures may also cause our operating results to fluctuate and make it difficult for investors to compare operating results and financial statements between periods. In addition, from time to time we make strategic venture investments in other companies that provide products and services that are complementary to ours. If these investments are unsuccessful, this could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition.
While most of our sales are made to sales channel partners, we are dependent on those distributors and retailers to distribute and sell our products to other sales channel partners and ultimately to consumers. The sales and business practices of such sales channel partners, their compliance with laws and regulations, and their reputations - of which we may or may not be aware - may affect our business and our reputation.
channels or otherwise, our product sales could be adversely affected. Any loss of a major partner or distribution channel or other channel disruption could make us more dependent on alternate channels, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and distribution channels, increase our marketing costs, or adversely impact buying and inventory patterns, payment terms or other contractual terms.
Our sales channel partners, the distributors and retailers who distribute and sell our products, also sell products offered by our competitors and, in the case of retailer house brands, may also be our competitors. If product competitors offer our sales channel partners more favorable terms, have more products available to meet their needs, or utilize the leverage of broader product lines sold through the channel, or if our retailer channel partners show preference for their own house brands, our sales channel partners may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In addition, certain of our sales channel partners could decide to de-emphasize the product categories that we offer in exchange for other product categories that they believe provide them with higher returns. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with these sales channel partners or to maintain our distribution channels, our business will suffer.
We use retail sell-through data, which represents sales of our products by our direct retailer customers to consumers, and by our distributor customers to their customers, along with other metrics, to assess consumer demand for our products. Sell-through data is subject to limitations due to collection methods and the third-party nature of the data and thus may not be an accurate indicator of actual consumer demand for our products. In addition, the customers supplying sell-through data vary by geographic region and from period to period, but typically represent a majority of our retail sales. In addition, we rely on channel inventory data from our retailer and distributor customers. If we do not receive this information on a timely and accurate basis, or if we do not properly interpret this information, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.
Our principal manufacturing operations and third-party contract manufacturers are located in China and Southeast Asia, which exposes us to risks associated with doing business in that geographic area.
Our manufacturing operations in China could be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation and enforcement of legal standards, strains on China’s available labor pool, changes in labor costs and other employment dynamics, high turnover among Chinese employees, infrastructure issues, import-export issues, currency transfer restrictions, natural disasters, conflicts or disagreements between China and Taiwan or China and the United States, labor unrest, and other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Interpretation and enforcement of China’s laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future.
Our manufacturing operations at third-party contractors could be adversely affected by contractual disagreements, by labor unrest, by natural disasters, by strains on local communications, trade, and other infrastructures, by competition for the available labor pool or manufacturing capacity, by increasing labor and other costs, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe.
Lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.
As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC adopted disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer’s efforts to identify and prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. Additional reporting obligations are being considered by the European Union. The implementation of the existing U.S. requirements and any additional requirements in Europe could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited, and the implementation of these requirements may decrease the number of suppliers capable of supplying our needs for certain metals. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to the due diligence process of determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. As our supply chain is complex and we use contract manufacturers for some of our products, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may adversely affect our reputation. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could, if we are unable to satisfy their requirements or pass through any increased costs associated with meeting their requirements place us at a competitive disadvantage, adversely affect our business and operating results, or both. We filed our report for the calendar year 2016 with the SEC on May 30, 2017.
If we do not successfully coordinate the worldwide manufacturing and distribution of our products, we could lose sales.
Our business requires us to coordinate the manufacture and distribution of our products over much of the world. We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our products, manage centralized distribution centers, and transport our products. If we do not successfully coordinate the timely manufacturing and distribution of our products, if our manufacturers, distribution logistics providers or transport providers are not able to successfully and timely process our business or if we do not receive timely and accurate information from such providers, and especially if we expand into new product categories or our business grows in volume, we may have an insufficient supply of products to meet customer demand, we could lose sales, we may experience a build-up in inventory, we may incur additional costs, and our financial performance and reporting may be adversely affected.
We conduct operations in a number of countries, and have invested significantly in growing our sales and marketing activities in China, and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could adversely affect us.
•Varying laws, regulations and other legal protections, uncertain and varying enforcement of those laws and regulations, dependence on local authorities, and the importance of local networks and relationships;
•Exposure to political and financial instability, especially with the uncertainty associated with the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in certain Euro zone countries and the stability of the European Union, which may lead to reduced sales, currency exchange losses and collection difficulties or other losses;
•Political and economic uncertainty around the world, including uncertainty resulting from the recent United States presidential and congressional elections, change of administration in the United States and the United Kingdom's referendum in June 2016, and other national elections and policy shifts;
•Import or export restrictions or licensing requirements that could affect some of our products, including those with encryption technology;
•Trade protection measures, custom duties, tariffs, import or export duties, and other trade barriers, restrictions and regulations;
•Lack of infrastructure or services necessary or appropriate to support our products and services;
•Exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies;
•Difficulties and increased costs in establishing sales and distribution channels in unfamiliar markets, with their own market characteristics and competition, including entrenched local competition;
•Higher credit risks;
•Changes in VAT (value-added tax) or VAT reimbursement;
•Imposition of currency exchange controls;
•A broad range of customs, consumer trends, and more.
We have also invested significantly in our manufacturing facilities in China. Policy changes in the United States or other countries, given our lack of manufacturing in those countries or for other protectionist reasons, could result in tariffs or other adverse tax consequences or may cause us to change the structure of how we currently operate, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Our financial performance is subject to risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Therefore, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates.
Our primary exposure to movements in currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. Dollar denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide. For the three months ended December 31, 2017, approximately 47% of our revenue was in non-U.S. denominated currencies. The weakening of currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar adversely affects the U.S. Dollar value of our non-U.S. Dollar-denominated sales and earnings. If we raise international pricing to compensate, it could potentially reduce demand for our products, adversely affecting our sales and potentially having an adverse impact on our market share. Margins on sales of our products in non-U.S. Dollar denominated countries and on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers in non-U.S. Dollar denominated countries could be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. In some circumstances, for competitive or other reasons, we may decide not to raise local prices to fully offset the U.S. Dollar’s strengthening, which would adversely affect the U.S. Dollar value of our non-U.S. Dollar-denominated sales and earnings. Competitive conditions in the markets in which we operate may also limit our ability to increase prices in the event of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Conversely, strengthening of currency rates may also increase our product component costs and other expenses denominated in those currencies, adversely affecting operating results. We further note that a larger portion of our sales than of our expenses are denominated in non-U.S. denominated currencies.
We use derivative instruments to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in currency exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place and do not protect us from long term shifts in currency exchange rates.
As a company operating in many markets and jurisdictions and expanding into new growth categories, and as a Swiss, dual - listed company, we are subject to risks associated with new, existing and potential future laws and regulations.
Based on our current business model and as we expand into new markets and product categories, we must comply with a wide variety of laws, standards and other requirements governing, among other things, health and safety, hazardous materials usage, product-related energy consumption, packaging, recycling and environmental matters. Our products may be required to obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other regulatory concerns in the various jurisdictions where they are manufactured, sold or both. These requirements create procurement and design challenges, which, among other things, require us to incur additional costs identifying suppliers and contract manufacturers who can provide or obtain compliant materials, parts and end products. Failure to comply with such requirements can subject us to liability, additional costs, and reputational harm and, in severe cases, force us to recall products or prevent us from selling our products in certain jurisdictions.
As a Swiss company with shares listed on both the SIX Swiss Exchange and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we are also subject to both Swiss and United States corporate governance and securities laws and regulations. In addition to the extra costs and regulatory burdens of our dual regulatory obligations, the two regulatory regimes may not always be compatible and may impose disclosure obligations, operating restrictions or tax effects on our business to which our competitors and other companies are not subject. For example, on January 1, 2014, subject to certain transitional provisions, the Swiss Federal Council Ordinance Against Excessive Compensation at Public Companies (the “Ordinance”) became effective in connection with the Minder initiative approved by Swiss voters during 2013. The Ordinance, among other things, (a) requires a binding shareholder “say on pay” vote with respect to the compensation of members of our executive management and Board of Directors, (b) generally prohibits the making of severance, advance, transaction premiums and similar payments to members of our executive management and Board of Directors, (c) imposes other restrictive compensation practices, and (d) requires that our articles of incorporation specify various compensation-related matters. In addition, during 2013, Swiss voters considered an initiative to limit pay for a chief executive officer to a multiple of no more than twelve times the salary of the lowest-paid employee. Although voters rejected that initiative, it did receive substantial voter support. The Ordinance, potential future initiatives relating to corporate governance or executive compensation, and Swiss voter sentiment in favor of such regulations may increase our non-operating costs and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and members of our Board of Directors.
The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. To remain competitive, we must continually introduce new products and technologies. The products that we sell could contain defects in design or manufacture. Defects could also occur in the products or components that are supplied to us. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and remedy all defects in the hardware and software we sell. Failure to do so could result in product recalls, product liability claims and litigation product redesign efforts, lost revenue, loss of reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses to remedy.
While we maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liabilities and purchase liability insurance, our reserves may not be adequate to cover such claims and liabilities and our insurance is subject to deductibles and may not be adequate to cover such claims and liabilities. Furthermore, our contracts with distributors and retailers may contain warranty, indemnification and other provisions related to product quality issues, and claims under those provisions may adversely affect our business and operating results.
Significant disruptions in, or breaches in security of, our websites or information technology systems could adversely affect our business.
As a consumer electronics company, our websites are an important presentation of our company, identity and brands and an important means of interaction with and source of information for consumers of our products. We also rely on our centralized information technology systems for product-related information and to store intellectual property, forecast our business, maintain financial records, manage operations and inventory, and operate other 
critical functions. We allocate significant resources to maintain our information technology systems and deploy network security, data encryption, training and other measures to protect against unauthorized access or misuse. Nevertheless, our websites and information technology systems are susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, structural or operational failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, other data security issues, telecommunication failures, user error, malfeasance, catastrophes, system or software upgrades, integration or migration, or other foreseeable and unforeseen events. Breaches or disruptions of our websites or information technology systems, breaches of confidential information, data corruption or other data security issues could adversely affect our brands, reputation, relationships with customers or business partners, or consumer or investor perception of our company, business or products or result in disruptions of our operations, loss of intellectual property or our customers’ or our business partners’ data, reduced value of our investments in our brands, design, research and development or engineering, or costs to address regulatory inquiries or actions or private litigation, to respond to customers or partners or to rebuild or restore our websites or information technology systems.
As disclosed in Part 1, Item 4 of this report, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. The material weakness was identified during the preparation of our audited financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2017. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of the material weakness identified, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of March 31, 2017, based on criteria established in the framework in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. We are actively engaged in implementing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. In the past, we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as described in our previous Annual Reports on Form 10-K. If our remediation measures are insufficient to address this material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements, and we could be required to restate our financial results. In addition to potentially adversely affecting investors' confidence, any restatement of our consolidated financial statements could lead to potential litigation against us, which, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, costly or divert significant operational resources, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of our operations.
The collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution of user data could give rise to liabilities and additional costs of operation as a result of laws, governmental regulation and risks of security breaches.
In connection with certain of our products, we collect data related to our consumers. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, and especially in Europe. Government actions are typically intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information and its collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution in or from the governing jurisdiction. In addition, because various jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the use, storage and transmission of such information, we may face requirements that pose compliance challenges in existing markets as well as new international markets that we seek to enter. The collection of user data heightens the risk of security breaches and other data security issues related to our IT systems and the systems of third-party data storage and other service and IT providers. Such laws and regulations, and the variation between jurisdictions, as well as additional security measures and risk, could subject us to costs, liabilities or negative publicity that could adversely affect our business.
During fiscal years 2014 and 2015, we devoted significant resources to the upgrade of our worldwide business application suite to Oracle’s version R12. We implemented that upgrade in fiscal year 2016 and will continue to review the success of that implementation during fiscal year 2018. As a result of our transition to the new business application suite, we may experience difficulties with our systems, management distraction, lack of visibility into our business operations and results, and significant business disruptions. Difficulties with our systems may interrupt our normal operations, including our enterprise resource planning, forecasting, demand planning, supply planning, 
intercompany processes, promotion management, internal financial controls, pricing, and our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers and consumers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, and otherwise run and track our business. For example, the transition has resulted in delays in processing customer claims for claims accruals. In addition, we may need to expend significant attention, time and resources to correct problems or find alternative sources for performing these functions. Any such difficulty or disruption may adversely affect our business and operating results.
We cannot ensure that our recently announced share repurchase program will be fully utilized or that it will enhance long-term shareholder value. Share repurchases may also increase the volatility of the trading price of our shares and diminish our cash reserves.
In March 2017, our Board of Directors authorized a three-year $250 million repurchase program of our registered shares. This program does not obligate us to repurchase all or any of the dollar-value of shares authorized for repurchase. The program could also increase the volatility of the trading price of our shares, and any announcement of a termination or suspension of the program may result in a decrease in our share price. The program could also diminish our cash reserves that may be needed for investments in our business, acquisitions or other purposes.
Goodwill associated with a number of previous acquisitions could result in impairment charges. The slowdown in the overall video conferencing industry together with the competitive environment in fiscal year 2013 resulted in a $214.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in fiscal year 2013, which substantially impacted results of discontinued operations. We recorded an additional impairment charge of goodwill of $122.7 million related to our Lifesize video conferencing discontinued operations in fiscal year 2015, reducing its goodwill to zero, which substantially impacted results of discontinued operations again. If we divest or discontinue product categories or products that we previously acquired, or if the value of those parts of our business become impaired, we may need to evaluate the carrying value of our goodwill. Additional impairment charges could adversely affect our results of operations.
