fls.txt



item1.txt
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business.
Furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties, including hardware and software tools and products.
Through June 30, 2018, the Company had used $929.4 million of the $1.00 billion authorized under the 2016 Repurchase Program, leaving $70.6 million available for future repurchases.
Despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be discovered in existing or new products.
Rent expense, net of rental income, under all operating leases was $1.0 million and $1.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively.
Any subsequent changes in fair values of the interest rate swap contracts and the 2024 Notes will be recorded in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements" for additional detail.
During the first three months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, the Company withheld $5.5 million and $25.6 million worth of RSU awards, respectively, to satisfy the employees’ tax obligations.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
Most of our wafers are manufactured in Taiwan by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC).
On May 30, 2017, the Company issued the 2024 Notes at a discounted price of 99.887% of par.
[1] Prior year balances have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.
The 2017 Convertible Notes matured during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and the Company exercised its call options to neutralize the dilutive effect of the incremental shares from the 2017 Convertible Notes.
Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications.
The global credit and capital markets may again experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% and the Company’s effective tax rate in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to income earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions, for which no U.S. income tax had been provided, as the Company had intended to permanently reinvest the earnings outside of the U.S.


item2.txt
We are not aware of any lack of access to the revolving credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that access to the revolving credit facility will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales from Industrial, Scientific and Medical and Data Center, but was partially offset by decline in sales from Wireless and TME.
Net revenues from Core Products increased in the first three months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.
However, the risk factors discussed in Item 1A included in Part II.


item3.txt
In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating.


item4.txt



part2.txt
EAR and ITAR govern the export and re-export of these FPGAs, the transfer of related technologies, whether in the U.S. or abroad, and the provision of services.
TSMC's and UMC's foundries in Taiwan and our assembly and test partners in other regions as well as many of our operations in California are located in areas that have been seismically active in the past and some of these areas have also been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons.
We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations.
Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner.
The nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business.
Any failure of our information technology systems to function properly could result in business disruption.
Down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products.
In addition, we could be subject to product liability claims.


