fls.txt



item1.txt
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
•large enterprises, like hyperscalers, that have the resources to develop proprietary semiconductors.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's worldwide net revenues for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019.
We depend on the uninterrupted operation of our IT systems to manage our operations, store and retrieve business and financial data and facilitate internal communications and communications with customers, subcontractors, suppliers and distribution partners.
Interest on the 2021 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15.
No other distributor accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 and 2019.
In the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools.
The Company provides an accrual for known product issues if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated.
Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes or other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water.
The TCJA enacted in December 2017 had a significant impact on our tax obligations.
Our failure to comply with the requirements of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the International Traffic and Arms Regulations (ITAR) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
On March 12, 2014, the Company issued the 2021 Notes at a discounted price of 99.281% of par.
Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications.
The availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.
Accordingly, the Company received the balance of $100.0 million back from the financial institution during the second quarter of fiscal 2020.


item2.txt
The decrease in the effective tax rates in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 as compared to the same prior year periods was primarily due to an increase in excess tax benefits with respect to stock-based compensation and adjustments in the prior year periods to the provisional estimates previously recorded under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA).
We had no collectability issues and our accounts receivable remained current as of September 28, 2019.
Portions of this Exhibit have been omitted.
Net revenues from AIT increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods.


item3.txt
Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained and the hedged relationship has been effective, are deferred and included in income or expenses in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The amount of damages alleged in certain legal claims may be significant.
Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel.
The availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.
In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future.
The insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
Changes to the U.S. immigration laws may also impact the availability of qualified personnel.
The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner.
We develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software.


