fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company incurred a net interest expense of $939 thousand and $2.4 million for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2018, respectively, from the interest rate swap contracts, which was included in interest and other income (expense), net on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
Our FPGAs and related technologies are subject to EAR, which are administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce.
Certain other claims involving the Company are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under "Note 17.
The goodwill of $178.3 million arising from the acquisition is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits that will be generated from the combination of the Company and Deephi Tech.
In relation to the issuance of the 2024 Notes, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions, whereby the Company pays on a semi-annual basis, a variable interest rate equal to the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 91.43 bps, and receives on a semi-annual basis, interest income at a fixed interest rate of 2.950%.
The aggregate amount of our consolidated indebtedness as of December 29, 2018 was $1.75 billion (principal amount), which consists of $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% Notes due 2019 (2019 Notes), $500.0 million in aggregate
net revenues, respectively.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company repurchased 2.4 million shares of common stock in the open market with independent financial institutions for a total of $161.6 million and during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, the Company repurchased 4.7 million shares of common stock in the open market and through accelerated share repurchase agreements with an independent financial institution for a total of $310.8 million.
During the nine months ended December 29, 2018, the net change in fair values of the interest rate swap contracts and the underlying 2024 Notes was $5.9 million, which was recorded as a derivative liability for the interest rate swap contacts and as a reduction from the carrying amount of the 2024 Notes.
The Company attempts to mitigate the concentration of credit risk in its trade receivables through its credit evaluation process, collection terms, distributor sales to diverse end customers and through geographical dispersion of sales.
Subsequent to the acquisition, the financial results for Deephi Tech are included in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
The interim financial statements are unaudited, but reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal, recurring nature necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes or other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water.
As of December 29, 2018, 12.0 million shares were available for future issuance under the ESPP.
The right of set-off that exists with certain transactions enables the Company to net amounts due to and from the counterparty, reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default.
For example, in 2011, when certain suppliers located in Japan were forced to temporarily halt production as the result of a natural disaster, this resulted in a tightening of supply for those materials.
In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, the Company will recognize any effects of the guidance in the period that such guidance is issued.


item2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Net revenues from Core Products also increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues from Core Products also increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
Beginning in fiscal 2019, our distributors restocked their inventory to support mutual growth and customer service objectives.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at December 29, 2018 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $33.0 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure.
From time to time we have effected restructuring that eliminate a number of positions.
•access to advanced packaging technology.
Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses.
If these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and materially affected.
We cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies.
A failure to comply with these covenants and other provisions in these indentures could result in events of default under the indentures, which could permit acceleration of the 2019 Notes, the 2021 Notes and the 2024 Notes.
On May 16, 2016, the Board authorized the 2016 Repurchase Program to repurchase of up to $1.00 billion of shares of our common stock and debentures.


