fls.txt



item1.txt
Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
Through December 30, 2017, the Company had used $628.7 million of the $1.00 billion authorized under the 2016 Repurchase Program, leaving $371.3 million available for future repurchases.
The Company generally sells products with a limited warranty for product quality.
In preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of marketable debt securities (financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, bank loans, mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities), by contractual maturity, are shown in the table below.
We rely on information technology (IT) systems, and failure of these systems to function properly or unauthorized access to our systems could result in business disruption.
Xilinx generally does not require collateral for receivables from its end customers or from distributors.
Another $85.5 million related to the 2037 Convertible Notes would increase additional paid-in capital.
As a result of the 2008 global financial crisis, global consumer confidence eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns.
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
In relation to the CEO transition, as well as other executive transitions in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company expects to record a one-time charge of approximately $30.0 million to operating expenses in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018.
These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues.
The 2017 Convertible Notes matured during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, and the Company exercised its call options to neutralize the dilutive effect of the incremental shares from the 2017 Convertible Notes.
We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act).
For example, as a result of the March 2011 earthquake in Japan, production at the Seiko foundry at Sakata was halted temporarily, impacting production of some of our older devices.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
The TCJA also generally allows companies to repatriate these accumulated foreign earnings without incurring additional U.S. federal taxes beginning after December 31, 2017.
The 2016 Repurchase Program has no stated expiration date.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities for investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, to procure additional capital equipment and facilities, to develop new products, and to potentially acquire technologies or businesses that could complement our business.
For the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, approximately 52% of our net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or their subcontract manufacturers.


item3.txt
Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We have indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations.
While our overall inventory levels fluctuate over time, the inventory of newer product lines may be higher than other products due to a planned increase in safety stock in anticipation of future revenue growth.
Unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors.
We are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the U.S. which could adversely affect our business.
In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future.
The most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation.
In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future.
Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner.


