fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company expects to receive additional shares and a portion of the remaining estimated $131.9 million back during the next quarter.
Furthermore, the aggregate of individual unrealized losses that had been outstanding for twelve months or more was not significant as of June 29, 2019 and March 30, 2019.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business.
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The Board of Directors (Board) has approved stock repurchase programs enabling the Company to repurchase its common stock in the open market or through negotiated transactions with independent financial institutions.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019, approximately 50% and 63%, respectively, of the Company's net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or their subcontract manufacturers.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
"Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.
The marketable debt securities (financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities) are highly rated by the credit rating agencies, there have been no defaults on any of these securities and the Company has received interest payments as they become due.
In May 2017, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions to manage interest rate risks related to fixed interest rate expenses from its 2024 Notes and floating interest rate income from its investments in marketable debt securities.
The amounts of excess tax benefits, primarily from RSU vesting, were immaterial for all periods presented.
In addition, we may, from time to time, receive technical data from third parties that is subject to the ITAR, which are administered by the U.S. Department of State.
Another $85.5 million would increase additional paid-in capital.
We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs.
These non-financial assets are reduced to fair value when impaired.


item2.txt
Common Stock Repurchase Program" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part I.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales from wireless business driven by the initial deployment ramp of 5G wireless networks, and to a lesser extent higher sales from wireline business.
The increase was due to higher sales from all sub-segments, in particular from consumer business.
Item 2.Unregistered Sale of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds


item3.txt
Financial Instruments" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part 1.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We could also face competition from our licensees.
These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues.
In addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance.
EAR and ITAR govern the export and re-export of these FPGAs, the transfer of related technologies, whether in the U.S. or abroad, and the provision of services.
From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business.
We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations.
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.
If weak economic conditions happen, there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers.
We have indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations.


