fls.txt



item1.txt
Down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products.
From time to time we have effected restructuring that eliminate a number of positions.
The quarters ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks.
These parts may be counterfeit, salvaged or re-marked parts, or parts that have been altered, mishandled, or damaged.
The Company incurred a net interest expense of $642 thousand and $1.5 million for the three and six months ended September 29, 2018, respectively, from the interest rate swap contracts, which was included in interest and other income (expense), net on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
During the six months ended September 29, 2018, the net change in fair values of the interest rate swap contracts and the underlying 2024 Notes was $13.3 million, which was recorded as a derivative liability for the interest rate swap contacts and as a reduction from the carrying amount of the 2024 Notes.
Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel.
For the majority of RSUs granted, the number of shares of common stock issued on the date the RSU awards vest is net of the minimum statutory withholding requirements that the Company pays in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities on behalf of the Company's employees.
See "Note 19. Business Combination" to our condensed consolidated financial statements.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% and the Company's effective tax rate in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to the favorable impact of income earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions, which was partially offset by the new tax on low-taxed income from foreign subsidiaries.
However, there can be no assurances that the Company will not incur any financial liabilities in the future as a result of these obligations.
As a result of uncertainties regarding tax audit settlements and their possible outcomes, an estimate of the range of increase or decrease that could occur in the next twelve months cannot be made.
Furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us.
The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment.
We could also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products, or a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry.
In addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily.


item2.txt
The increase was partially offset by a significant reduction in the amount of deferred tax accrued on foreign earnings not considered to be permanently reinvested and the reduction in tax rate from 35% to 21%.
The increases were due to higher sales from all sub-segments, with particular strength coming from Automotive and Audio, Video and Broadcast.
These items were partially offset by $18.4 million proceeds from issuance of common stock.
•Advanced Products include our most recent product offerings and consist of the Alveo branded boards, UltraScale+, UltraScale and 7-series product families.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates at September 29, 2018 would have affected the annualized foreign-currency-denominated operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries by less than $13.0 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Our failure to comply with the requirements of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the International Traffic and Arms Regulations (ITAR) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a given product for the full life of the product.
In the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools.
Our FPGAs and related technologies are subject to EAR, which are administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce.
If these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and materially affected.
In preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our critical accounting policies.
Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 46% of our worldwide net revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and as of September 29, 2018, Avnet accounted for 50% of our total net accounts receivable.
The availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.


