Net non-routine expense of $72.7 for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was primarily due to acquisition and divestiture related costs inclusive of integration expenses of $19.8 primarily within selling and administrative expense and purchase accounting pretax charges, which included deferred revenue of $9.7 and $34.9 in amortization of acquired intangibles. Net non-routine expense of $206.2 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was primarily due to legal, acquisition and divestiture related costs of $16.1 inclusive of the mark-to-market impact on Diebold Nixdorf AG stock options and integration expenses of $54.8 primarily 
During 2017, the Company acquired all the capital stock of Moxx and certain assets and liabilities of Visio for $5.6 in the aggregate, net of cash acquired, which are included in the Retail and Eurasia Banking segments, respectively. During the third quarter of 2017, the Company acquired Moxx, which is a Netherlands based managed services company that provides managed mobility solutions for enterprises that use a large number of mobile assets in their business operations. In the second quarter of 2017, the Company acquired Visio, which is a design company based in Germany.
During 2017, the Company divested its legacy Diebold business in the United Kingdom (U.K.) to Cennox Group for $5.0, fulfilling the requirements previously set forth by the U.K. Competition and Markets Authority (CMA). The divestiture closed on June 30, 2017. As part of the Company's routine efforts to evaluate its business operations, during 2017, the Company divested its electronic security (ES) businesses located in Mexico and Chile in the second and third quarters of 2017, respectively. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $2.2 related to these transactions. The combined net sales of the divestitures represented less than one percent of total net sales of the Company for 2017.
Net non-routine expense consists of items that the Company has determined are non-routine in nature and not allocated to the reportable operating segments. Net non-routine expense of $152.0 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $109.3, acquisition integration expenses of $10.3 primarily within selling and administrative expense and purchase accounting pre-tax charges for amortization of acquired intangibles of $28.2. Net non-routine expense of $322.5 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was due to the goodwill impairment charge of $199.3 and acquisition integration expenses of $40.0, primarily within selling and administrative expense, and purchase accounting pre-tax charges for amortization of acquired intangibles of $88.7. 
The following is a description of principal solutions offered within the Company's two main industry segments that generate the Company's revenue. For more detailed information about reportable operating segments, see note 20.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2017-12, $(0.4) and $2.4 was included in net sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively and $(0.7) and $(0.6) in cost of sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, which would have been included in foreign exchange gain (loss), net in the prior period. 
The Company provides its banking customers product-related services which include proactive monitoring and rapid resolution of incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit. First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process. Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing. The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
During the second quarter of 2018, The Company began implementing DN Now to deliver greater, more sustainable profitability. The plan is anticipating savings of approximately $130 from the restructuring actions related to the new customer centric operating model with clear role charters and a global workforce aligned with market demand. Additional near term activities include divesting of non-core businesses, initiating a services modernization plan and investing in solutions. The Company incurred restructuring charges of $38.3 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 related to DN Now. The Company anticipates additional restructuring costs of approximately $90 to $110 through the end of the plan primarily related to severance anticipated for completion of the Company's transformation throughout the three solution segments and corporate.
Products for banking customers consist of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation tools and kiosk technologies, as well as physical security solutions. The retail product portfolio includes modular, integrated and mobile POS and self-checkout (SCO) terminals that meet evolving automation and omnichannel requirements of consumers. Supplementing the POS system is a broad range of peripherals, including printers, scales and mobile scanners, as well as the cash management portfolio which offers a wide range of banknote and coin processing systems. Also in the portfolio, the Company provides self-checkout terminals and ordering kiosks which facilitate an efficient and user-friendly purchasing experience. The Company’s hybrid product line can alternate from an attended operator to self-checkout with the press of a button as traffic conditions warrant throughout the business day.
The impact to net sales and cost of sales would have been decreases of $5.2 and $6.5, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and $19.0 and $15.1, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The impact after tax was $0.9 and $(2.7) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and was primarily a result of timing of deferred revenue related to products and software for certain amounts being recognized that would have previously been deferred, and certain amounts being deferred that would have previously been recognized.Software gross margin decreased 5.6 and 3.2 percent in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. Restructuring charges were higher by $1.7 and $2.6 in the three and nine months ended, respectively, while non-routine charge were lower by $1.4 and $8.3 in the three and nine months ended, respectively, primarily due to decreased Purchase Accounting Adjustments related to amortization. Excluding restructuring and non-routine charges, software gross margin decreased 6.1 and 5.1 percent in the three and nine months ended, respectively, primarily due to lower margin Latin America licenses net sales. Additionally, the nine months ended was adversely impacted from lower margin professional services in Eurasia.
Operating expense as a percent of net sales in the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased 10.3 percent to 32.4 percent compared to the same period in 2017 primarily related the non-cash impairment losses and higher restructuring cost. The nine months ended increased to 29.7 percent compared to 24.0 percent in the same period in 2017 primarily related to the non-cash impairment losses recorded during the second quarter and third quarter of 2018.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch. Our integrated business solutions include self-service fleet management, branch life-cycle management and ATM as-a-service capabilities. 
Product gross margin decreased 1.3 percent in the three months ended and was relatively flat in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The three months ended September 30, 2018 was unfavorably impacted by higher restructuring charges of $1.8 while both the three and the nine months ended were favorably impacted by lower non-routine charges of $10.0 and $29.5, respectively. Lower non-routine charges in both the three and nine months ended included decreased Purchase Accounting Adjustments of amortization and prior-year deferred revenue of $10.4 and $24.2 while the nine months ended also benefited $3.7 from the Brazil indirect tax accrual reversal in the first quarter of 2018. Excluding restructuring and non-routine charges, product gross margin decreased 3.1 and 2.3 percent in the three and nine months ended, respectively, primarily as a result of unfavorable banking and retail customer mix in the Americas as well as supply chain delays in the first half of 2018 and the corresponding expedited freight cost.
Services gross margin was relatively flat in both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and was favorably impacted by lower restructuring charges of $9.9 and $24.7 in the three and the nine months ended, respectively. Lower non-routine charges of $5.1 and $14.3 in the three and nine months ended, respectively, were primarily related to lower purchase accounting adjustments inclusive of amortization and prior-year quarter deferred revenue. Excluding restructuring and non-routine charges, services gross margin decreased in both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 by 1.9 and 2.4 percent, respectively. The three and nine months ended were adversely impacted by an unfavorable banking services mix in North America and higher non-recurring services cost in Brazil banking, primarily in the nine-month period. Additionally, both the three and nine months ended included unfavorable banking customer and services mix in Eurasia, negatively impacting gross margin.
Segment operating profit margin decreased in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the prior-year same periods due to an unfavorable customer and solutions mix. In addition, the nine months ended September 30, 2018 included higher operating expense related to the development of the retail business as well as higher research, development and engineering cost in Eurasia which negatively affected operating profit margin.
Research, development and engineering expense in the three months ended September 30, 2018 was relatively flat excluding higher restructuring of $1.4. In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, research, development and engineering expense included an unfavorable currency impact of $5.3. Excluding the impact of currency, research, development and engineering expense in the nine months ended was flat, primarily from lower AIP cost which was mostly offset by increased restructuring of $2.0.