Net non-routine expense consists of items that the Company has determined are non-routine in nature and not allocated to the LOBs. Net non-routine expense of $35.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was due to acquisition integration expenses of $15.2 primarily within selling and administrative expense and purchase accounting pre-tax charges for amortization of acquired intangibles of $31.2. Net non-routine expense of $77.4 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily due to legal, acquisition and divestiture related costs of $18.9 inclusive of the mark-to-market impact on Diebold Nixdorf AG stock options and integration expenses of $12.9 primarily within selling and administrative expense and purchase accounting pretax charges, which included deferred revenue of $10.4 and $31.8 in amortization of acquired intangibles.
In 2017, the Company recorded impairments totaling $3.1 related to information technology (IT) transformation and integration activities. There have been no impairment indicators identified during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
During 2017, the Company divested its legacy Diebold business in the U.K. to Cennox Group for $5.0, fulfilling the requirements previously set forth by the U.K. Competition and Markets Authority (CMA). The divestiture closed on June 30, 2017. As part of the Company's routine efforts to evaluate its business operations, during 2017, the Company divested its electronic security (ES) businesses located in Mexico and Chile in the second and third quarters of 2017, respectively. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $2.2 related to these transactions. The combined net sales of the divestitures represented less than one percent of total net sales of the Company for 2017.
Amortization expense on capitalized software of $8.8 and $9.6 was included in service and software cost of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company's total amortization expense, including deferred financing costs, was $39.9 and $39.4 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
During 2016, the Company entered into a strategic alliance plan with the Inspur Group, a Chinese cloud computing and data center company, to develop, manufacture and distribute banking solutions in China. The Company incurred $0.1 restructuring charges during the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to this plan. There were no charges during 2017. The Company anticipates minimal additional restructuring costs to be incurred through the end of the plan.
During 2017, the Company acquired all the capital stock of Moxx and certain assets and liabilities of Visio for $5.6 in the aggregate, net of cash acquired, which are included in the Services the line of business (LOB). During the third quarter of 2017, the Company acquired Moxx, which is a Netherlands based managed services company that provides managed mobility solutions for enterprises that use a large number of mobile assets in their business operations. In the second quarter of 2017, the Company acquired Visio, which is a design company based in Germany.
Product-related services provided by the Company include proactive monitoring and rapid resolution of incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit. First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process. Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing. The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The Company provides front-end applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration. These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks and other self-service devices. The Company's platform software is installed within bank and retail data centers to facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics. These offerings include highly configurable, application program interface (API) enabled software that automates legacy banking and retail transactions across channels.
The systems portfolio for banking customers consists of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation tools and physical security devices. For retail customers, the checkout portfolio includes modular, integrated and mobile POS systems that meet evolving automation and omnichannel requirements of consumers. Supplementing the POS system is a broad range of peripherals, including printers, scales and mobile scanners, as well as the cash management portfolio which offers a wide range of banknote and coin processing systems. Also in the portfolio, the Company provides self-checkout terminals and ordering kiosks which facilitate an efficient and user-friendly purchasing experience. The Company’s hybrid product line can alternate from an attended operator to self-checkout with the press of a button as traffic conditions warrant throughout the business day.
During 2016, the Company launched a multi-year integration and transformation program, known as DN2020. The DN2020 plan focuses on the utilization of cost efficiencies and synergy opportunities that result from the transformational acquisition of Wincor Nixdorf AG (Diebold Nixdorf AG), which aligns employee activities with the Company's goal of delivering cost reductions of approximately $240 by the year 2020. The Company incurred restructuring charges of $3.8 and $12.9 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to DN2020. The Company anticipates additional restructuring costs of approximately $50 primarily related to severance anticipated for completion of the Company's integration and transformation plans throughout the three lines of business to be incurred through the end of DN2020.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2017-12, $2.6 was included in net sales and $0.1 in cost of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 which would have been included in foreign exchange gain (loss), net in the prior period. Net cash used by operating activities was $142.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase in use of $76.0 from $66.3 for the same period in 2017.
The operating loss decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due primarily from decreased operating expenses as a result of lower non-routine and restructuring charges.
Operating expense as a percent of net sales in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was 24.6 percent compared with 26.4 percent in the three months ended March 31, 2017. The decrease is related primarily to lower restructuring and non-routine expense inclusive of the previously mentioned gain on sale of a building in North America.
Non-routine costs in selling and administrative expense of $38.5 and $49.1 were included in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The primary components of the non-routine expenses in the first quarter 2018 pertained to purchase accounting adjustments of $23.8 related to intangible asset amortization and integration costs totaling $14.2. Selling and administrative expense included restructuring charges of $1.3 and $8.4 in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Net loss was $63.3 and $52.2 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease is primarily due to the reasons described above and the change in income tax (benefit) expense.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel, bank branch and retail store networks. Managed services is the integrator of our solutions by bringing together services, software and systems into a long-term, outcome-based solution. Our integrated business solutions include store lifecycle management, self-service fleet management, branch lifecycle management, ATM as-a-service and managed mobility services. The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes. These services mitigate customer risks by relying on proven monitoring and reporting processes, secure tools and partnerships with larger cash-in-transit companies.
from higher research, development and engineering expenses associated with new product development and higher associate related cost.Disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act) are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.