We have identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could, if not remediated, materially adversely affect us. 
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) requires us to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K an assessment by the Company’s management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent auditors to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404. Our compliance with Section 404 may require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. In addition, if management or our independent auditors are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 
On July 14, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 5.0 million shares of our common stock (bringing the total shares authorized for repurchase since 1997 to 50.0 million). This authorization will be implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant. We currently have authorization to repurchase 2.5 million shares of our common stock under the current authorization of up to 5.0 million shares. 
Mr. Shannon’s termination of employment was in accordance with a Separation Agreement and General Release entered into between the Company and Mr. Shannon on June 7, 2019, which became effective on June 15, 2019 and provided for Mr. Shannon’s termination of employment as of the Separation Date (the “Separation Agreement”). Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Mr. Shannon is subject to certain restrictive covenants, including non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions for a period of eighteen months following the Separation Date, as well as customary confidentiality and non-disparagement restrictions. As consideration for his execution of the Separation Agreement, Mr. Shannon received an aggregate lump sum payment of approximately $0.2 million, representing the equivalent of six months’ pay, less withholdings, and six months of insurance coverage premiums. Additionally, all of Mr. Shannon’s unvested restricted stock units vested, and the Company agreed to extend the expiration dates of his vested stock options to twelve months after the Separation Date. 
The foregoing description of the Separation Agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Separation Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10 to this Form 10-Q and incorporated herein by reference. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
