In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to fairly state these interim statements have been recorded and are of a normal and recurring nature. The results of operations for an interim period are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year. The interim statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in ADTRAN’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed on February 23, 2018 with the SEC. 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract. ASU 2018-15 clarifies certain aspects of ASU 2015-05, Customer’s Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement. Specifically, ASU 2018-15 aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementations costs incurred to develop or obtain internal use software. ASU 2018-15 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating whether to early adopt, but we do not expect it will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 
These ASUs primarily affected our network implementation service revenue performance obligations and contract costs. We are using the “output method” to measure network implementation services progress, which 1) accelerates revenue recognition for certain performance obligations related to service revenue arrangements that were previously deferred until customer acceptance and 2) requires capitalization and amortization of the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as described below.  
We recorded a bargain purchase gain of $11.3 million during the first quarter of 2018, net of income taxes, which is subject to customary working capital adjustments between the parties. The bargain purchase gain of $11.3 million represents the difference between the fair value of the net assets acquired over the cash paid. SEI, an OEM supplier based in Japan, is the global market leader in EPON. SEI’s Broadband Networks Division, through its SEL subsidiary, operated a North American EPON business that included sales, marketing, support, and region-specific engineering development. The North American EPON market is primarily driven by the Tier 1 cable MSO operators and has developed more slowly than anticipated. Through the transaction, SEI divested its North American EPON assets and established a relationship with ADTRAN. The transfer of these assets to ADTRAN, which included key customer relationships and a required assumption by ADTRAN of relatively low incremental expenses, along with the value of the technology license and OEM supply agreement, resulted in the bargain purchase gain. We have assessed the recognition and measurement of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on historical and forecasted data for future periods and we have concluded that our valuation procedures and resulting measures were appropriate. 
The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information presents the financial results as if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2017. This unaudited supplemental pro forma information does not purport to be indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisition been completed on January 1, 2017, nor is it indicative of any future results. Aside from revising the 2017 and 2018 net income for the effect of the bargain purchase gain, there were no material, non-recurring adjustments to this unaudited pro forma information. 
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, we incurred acquisition and integration related expenses and amortization of acquired intangibles of $0.7 million and $1.6 million, respectively, related to this acquisition. 
Revenue is measured based on the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services to a customer and as performance obligations under the terms of the contract are satisfied. Generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of a product or service to the customer. For transactions where there are multiple performance obligations, we account for individual products and services separately if they are distinct (if a product or service is separately identifiable from other items and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer). The consideration, including any discounts, is allocated between separate products and services based on their stand-alone selling prices. The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which we sell the separate products and services and are allocated based on each item’s relative value to the total value of the products and services in the arrangement. For items that are not sold separately, we estimate stand-alone selling prices primarily using the “expected cost plus a margin” approach. Payment terms are typically 30 days. Shipping fees are recorded as revenue and the related cost is included in cost of sales. Sales, value-added, and other taxes collected concurrently with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue. Costs of obtaining a contract are capitalized and amortized over the period that the related revenue is recognized if greater than one year. We have elected to apply the practical expedient related to the incremental costs of obtaining contracts and recognize those costs as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets is one year or less. These costs are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. Capitalized costs with an amortization period greater than one year were immaterial. 
The following is a description of the principal activities from which we generate our revenue by reportable segment. 
Network Solutions includes hardware products and next-generation virtualized solutions used in service provider or business networks, as well as prior generation products.  
The majority of the revenue from this segment is from hardware sales and is recognized when control is transferred to our customers, which is generally when we ship the products. Shipping terms are generally FOB shipping point. Revenue is recorded net of estimated discounts and rebates using historical trends. Customers are typically invoiced when control is transferred and revenue is recognized. Our products generally include assurance-based warranties of 90 days to five years for product defects, which are accrued at the time revenue is recognized. 
Our maintenance service periods range from one month to five years. Customers are typically invoiced and pay for maintenance services at the beginning of the maintenance period. We recognize revenue for maintenance services on a straight-line basis over the maintenance period in services revenue as our customers benefit evenly throughout the contract term and deferred revenues are recorded in current and non-current unearned revenue. 
We recognize revenue for network implementation, which primarily consists of engineering, execution and enablement services, at a point in time when each performance obligation is complete. If we have recognized revenue, but have not billed the customer, the right to consideration is recognized as a contract asset that is included in other receivables in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The contract asset is transferred to accounts receivable when the completed performance obligation is invoiced to the customer. 
As of September 30, 2018, we did not have any significant performance obligations related to customer contracts that had an original expected duration of one year or more, other than maintenance services, which are satisfied over time. 
The decrease in accounts receivable is due to the collection of customer specific payment terms that became due in the first quarter of 2018. The increase in the contract asset balance for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to revenue recognized that has not yet been billed to the customer during the period. The increase in the unearned revenue balance as of nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to cash payments received or due in advance of satisfying our performance obligations, offset by $8.9 million of revenues recognized that were included in the unearned revenue balance as of December 31, 2017.  
The components of net periodic pension cost other than the service cost component are included in the line item “Other income (expense), net” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
As of September 30, 2018, there was $1.2 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 1.0 years. 
The fair value of our stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes model. The determination of the fair value of stock options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model is affected by our stock price, as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables that may have a significant impact on the fair value estimate. 
There were no stock options granted during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 or 2017. 
The fair value of our PSUs with market conditions is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation valuation method. The fair value of RSUs and restricted stock is equal to the closing price of our stock on the date of grant. During the first quarter of 2017, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved a PSU grant of 0.5 million shares that contain performance conditions. The fair value of these performance-based PSU awards was equal to the closing price of our stock on the date of grant.  
As of September 30, 2018, there was $9.8 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested market-based PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 2.6 years. In addition, there was $9.4 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested performance-based PSUs, which will be recognized over the requisite service period of three years as the achievement of the performance objective becomes probable. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, no compensation expense was recognized related to these performance-based PSU awards. 
Prior to January 1, 2018, our marketable equity securities were classified as available-for-sale. Realized gains and losses on marketable equity securities were included in net investment gain (loss). Unrealized gains and losses were recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of deferred taxes, on the balance sheet. 
As of September 30, 2018 and 2017, gross unrealized losses related to individual investments in a continuous loss position for twelve months or longer were not significant. 
The fair value of our Level 2 securities is calculated using a weighted average market price for each security. Market prices are obtained from a variety of industry standard data providers, security master files from large financial institutions, and other third-party sources. These multiple market prices are used as inputs into a distribution-curve-based algorithm to determine the daily market value of each security. 
We participate in foreign exchange forward contracts in connection with the management of exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. 
Our cash flow hedging activities utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that movements in exchange rates will adversely affect the net cash flows resulting from the planned purchase of products from foreign suppliers. Purchases of U.S. denominated inventory by our European subsidiary represent our primary exposure. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are not recognized in current operating results, but are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts related to cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income when the underlying hedged item impacts earnings. This reclassification is recorded in cost of sales, the same line item of the Consolidated Statements of Income at which the effects of the hedged item are recorded. 
We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. Our derivative instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values. Our derivative instruments are not subject to master netting arrangements and are not offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
As of September 30, 2018, we had no foreign exchange forward contracts. 
We establish reserves for estimated excess, obsolete, or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated fair value of the inventory based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, raw materials reserves totaled $17.2 million and $15.0 million, respectively, and finished goods inventory reserves totaled $10.6 million and $8.3 million, respectively. 
Intangible assets are included in other assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and include intangibles acquired in conjunction with our acquisitions of Bluesocket, Inc. on August 4, 2011, the NSN BBA business on May 4, 2012, CommScope’s active fiber access business on September 13, 2016 and Sumitomo Electric Lightwave Corp.’s North American EPON business and technology license and OEM supply agreement with Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd. on March 19, 2018. 
The following table presents our intangible assets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Fully amortized intangible assets have been removed from prior year balances for comparability. 
Since 1997, our Board of Directors has approved multiple share repurchase programs that have authorized open market repurchase transactions of up to 50.0 million shares of our common stock that are implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 0.9 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $15.75 per share. As of September 30, 2018, we have the authority to purchase an additional 2.7 million shares of our common stock under the current plans approved by the Board of Directors. 
We issued 0.1 million shares of treasury stock during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 to accommodate employee stock option exercises. The stock options had exercise prices ranging from $15.29 to $18.97. We received proceeds totaling $1.3 million from the exercise of these stock options during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. 
Other comprehensive income consists of unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities; unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges; reclassification adjustments for amounts included in net income related to impairments of available-for-sale debt securities, realized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities, realized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges, and amortization of actuarial gains (losses) related to our defined benefit plan; defined benefit plan adjustments; and foreign currency translation adjustments. 
With the adoption of ASU 2016-01, the unrealized gains on our equity investments were reclassified to retained earnings. See Note 1 for more information. 
Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Anti-dilutive options to purchase common stock outstanding were excluded from the above calculations. Anti-dilutive options totaled 3.9 million and 3.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 4.8 million and 3.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. As a result of the net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we excluded 0.1 million of unvested stock options, PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock from the calculation of diluted EPS due to their anti-dilutive effect. 
The following table presents information about the reported sales and gross profit of our reportable segments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. We do not produce asset information by reportable segment; therefore, it is not reported. 
We have committed to invest up to an aggregate of $7.9 million in two private equity funds, and we have contributed $8.4 million as of September 30, 2018, of which $7.7 million has been applied to these commitments. 
On October 16, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per common share to be paid to stockholders of record at the close of business on October 31, 2018. The payment date will be November 14, 2018. The quarterly dividend payment will be approximately $4.3 million. In July 2003, our Board of Directors elected to begin declaring quarterly dividends on our common stock considering the tax treatment of dividends and adequate levels of Company liquidity. 
