fls.txt
Furthermore, the inclusion of forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that future events, plans or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Jabil Inc. (the “Company”) has made certain reclassification adjustments to conform prior periods’ Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to the current presentation.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
In June 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”).
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 48% of its net revenue and 75 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.
An operating segment’s performance is evaluated based on its pre-tax operating contribution, or segment income.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale.
As of November 30, 2018, the Company has $2.3 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $410.2 million, $503.7 million and $449.5 million, respectively, as of November 30, 2018.
The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% Senior Notes, was approximately $299.0 million, as of November 30, 2018.
The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under a foreign asset-backed securitization program, a North American asset-back securitization program and nine uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”).
The adoption of ASU 2016-15 described in Note 14, New Accounting Guidance, resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable on asset-backed securitization transactions.
Effective October 1, 2018, the foreign asset-backed securitization program terms were amended and the program was extended to September 30, 2021.
The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution.


item2.txt
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the three months ended November 30, 2018, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
In connection with the adoption of ASU 2014-09, days in inventory are calculated based on inventory and contract asset balances for the three months ended November 30, 2018.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, days in inventory increased from the prior sequential quarter to support expected sales levels in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
During the three months ended August 31, 2018 and May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to increased sales activity during the quarter.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.


item4.txt
Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted the new revenue standard under ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, using the modified retrospective method of adoption.


