fls.txt
Furthermore, the inclusion of forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that future events, plans or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved.


item1.txt
The Company calculates its basic earnings per share by dividing net income attributable to Jabil Inc. by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
On October 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee approved the modification of vesting criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2015.
As a result of the modification, 0.8 million awards vested during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, which resulted in approximately $24.9 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized for the three months ended November 30, 2017.
As of November 30, 2017, 3.2 million shares had been repurchased for $93.2 million and $356.7 million remains available under the 2017 Share Repurchase Program.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 51% of its net revenue and 74 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.
Almost all of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
An operating segment’s performance is evaluated based on its pre-tax operating contribution, or segment income.
Total segment assets are defined as accounts receivable, inventories, net customer-related property, plant and equipment, intangible assets net of accumulated amortization and goodwill.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale.
Total foreign net revenue represented 92.3% of net revenue during both the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016.
 (1)  The notes are carried at the principal amount of each note, less any unamortized discount and unamortized debt issuance costs.
 (2)  The Senior Notes are the Company’s senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured debt obligations.


item2.txt
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, digital home, healthcare, industrial and energy, mobility, networking and telecommunications, packaging, point of sale and printing industries.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
We derived a substantial majority, 92.3%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months ended November 30, 2017.
Management regularly reviews financial and non-financial performance indicators to assess the Company’s operating results.
 (1)  The sales cycle is calculated as the sum of days in accounts receivable and days in inventory, less the days in accounts payable; accordingly, the variance in the sales cycle quarter over quarter is a direct result of changes in these indicators.
 (2)  During the three months ended August 31, 2017, the decrease in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of sales and collections activity.
 (3)  During the three months ended November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter due to increased demand in the mobility business as well as the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended May 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 13% due to a 12% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and a 1% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare and packaging businesses.


