fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
The Company has made certain reclassification adjustments to conform prior periods’ Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to the current presentation.
The Company calculates its basic earnings per share by dividing net income attributable to Jabil Inc. by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
On October 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee approved the modification of vesting criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2015.
In July 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2017 Share Repurchase Program”).
As of May 31, 2018, 11.5 million shares had been repurchased for $316.2 million and $133.8 million remains available under the 2017 Share Repurchase Program.
In June 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”).
Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.
Total segment assets are defined as accounts receivable, inventories, net, customer-related property, plant and equipment, intangible assets net of accumulated amortization and goodwill.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which the Company would transact with third parties.
Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale.
Total foreign net revenue represented 91.2% and 91.8% of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively, compared to 90.6% and 91.3% of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, respectively.
 (2)  The Senior Notes are the Company’s senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured debt obligations.
 (3)  During the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company issued $500.0 million of publicly registered 3.950% Senior Notes due 2028 (the “3.950% Senior Notes”).
The net proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes, including to redeem $400.0 million of the Company’s outstanding 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 and pay related costs and a “make-whole” premium.


item2.txt
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, digital home, healthcare, industrial and energy, mobility, networking and telecommunications, packaging, point of sale and printing industries.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
 (2)  During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to increased sales activity during the quarter.
During the three months ended February 28, 2018, the increase in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the increase in inventories to support expected sales levels in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 along with overall increased demand.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
See Note 13 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 36% due to (i) a 29% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand, (ii) a 4% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare business and (iii) a 3% increase in revenues due to a new customer and from existing customers in our consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies business.
EMS segment revenues increased 12% primarily due to (i) a 3% increase in revenues from a new customer and from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (ii) a 3% increase in revenues from existing customers in our capital equipment business, (iii) a 2% increase in revenues from existing customers in our digital home business, (iv) a 2% increase in revenues from existing customers within our networking and telecommunications business and (v) a 2% increase in revenues spread across various industries within the EMS segment.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 27% due to (i) a 25% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and (ii) a 2% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare business.
EMS segment revenues increased 8% primarily due to (i) a 3% increase in revenues from customers within our capital equipment business, (ii) a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our digital home business, (iii) a 2% increase in revenues from a new customer and existing customers within our industrial and energy business and (iv) a 1% increase in revenues from customers in our automotive and transportation business.


