fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company calculates its basic earnings per share by dividing net income attributable to the Company by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities. The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock unit awards (“restricted stock units”) and dilutive stock appreciation rights.  
In June 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”). The 2018 Share Repurchase Program expires August 31, 2019. As of February 28, 2019, 13.9 million shares had been repurchased for $350.0 million, which utilized the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors.  
Sales of the Company’s products are concentrated among specific customers. During the six months ended February 28, 2019, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 46% of its net revenue and 78 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue. Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.  
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers. Some of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.  
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $6.1 million for the three months ended February 28, 2018, and $2.9 million and $16.4 million for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.  
As of February 28, 2019, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide. Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale.  
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $410.5 million, $508.0 million and $463.3 million, respectively, as of February 28, 2019. The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria). The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% Senior Notes, was approximately $304.6 million, as of February 28, 2019. This fair value estimate is based on the Company’s indicative borrowing cost derived from discounted cash flows (Level 3 criteria). The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.  
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under a foreign asset-backed securitization program, a North American asset-back securitization program and uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”). The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs. Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 were not material. The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.  
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis. Effective October 1, 2018, the foreign asset-backed securitization program terms were amended and the program was extended to September 30, 2021. In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.  
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million. The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution. The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value. Prior to the amendment, any portion of the purchase price for the receivables not paid in cash upon the sale occurring was recorded as a deferred purchase price receivable, which was paid from available cash as payments on the receivables were collected. The foreign asset-backed securitization program contains a guarantee of payment by the special purpose entity, in an amount equal to approximately the net cash proceeds under the program. No liability has been recorded for obligations under the guarantee as of February 28, 2019.  
The special purpose entity in the foreign asset-backed securitization program is a separate bankruptcy-remote entity whose assets would be first available to satisfy the creditor claims of the unaffiliated financial institution. The Company is deemed the primary beneficiary of this special purpose entity as the Company has both the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive the benefits that could potentially be significant to the entity from the transfer of the trade accounts receivable into the special purpose entity. Accordingly, the special purpose entity associated with the foreign asset-backed securitization program is included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash. The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value.  
On November 27, 2018, the Company entered into a new North American asset-backed securitization program. The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis. The special purpose entity in the North American asset-backed securitization program is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and is included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. There is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the North American asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold. Additionally, $197.0 million in receivables are pledged as collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution as of February 28, 2019.  
Recorded initially at fair value as prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are valued using unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs), primarily discounted cash flows, and due to their credit quality and short-term maturity the fair values approximated book values. The unobservable inputs consist of estimated credit losses and estimated discount rates, which both have an immaterial impact on the fair value calculations.  
The asset-backed securitization programs require compliance with several covenants. The North American asset-based securitization program covenants include compliance with the interest ratio and debt to EBITDA ratio of the Credit Facility. The foreign asset-backed securitization program covenants include limitations on certain corporate actions such as mergers and consolidations. As of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the asset-backed securitization programs.  
Forward contracts are put in place to manage the foreign currency risk associated with the anticipated foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses. A hedging relationship existed with an aggregate notional amount outstanding of $251.7 million and $293.4 million as of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively. The related forward foreign exchange contracts have been designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The forward foreign exchange contract transactions will effectively lock in the value of anticipated foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses against foreign currency fluctuations. The anticipated foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses being hedged are expected to occur between March 1, 2019 and November 30, 2019.  


