fls.txt
Furthermore, the inclusion of forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that future events, plans or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
The Company has made certain reclassification adjustments to conform prior periods’ Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to the current presentation.
The Company calculates its basic earnings per share by dividing net income attributable to Jabil Inc. by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
On October 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee approved the modification of vesting criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2015.
As a result of the modification, 0.8 million awards vested during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, which resulted in approximately $24.9 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized.
In July 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2017 Share Repurchase Program”).
During the six months ended February 28, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 51% of its net revenue and 74 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.
Total segment assets are defined as accounts receivable, inventories, net, customer-related property, plant and equipment, intangible assets net of accumulated amortization and goodwill.
Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale.
Total foreign net revenue represented 91.9% and 92.1% of net revenue during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively, compared to 90.9% and 91.7% of net revenue during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2017.
 (1) The notes are carried at the principal amount of each note, less any unamortized discount and unamortized debt issuance costs.
 (2) The Senior Notes are the Company’s senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured debt obligations.
Fees include a facility fee based on the revolving credit commitments of the lenders and a letter of credit fee based on the amount of outstanding letters of credit.


item2.txt
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, digital home, healthcare, industrial and energy, mobility, networking and telecommunications, packaging, point of sale and printing industries.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the six months ended February 28, 2018, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Ingenico S.A., LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., SolarEdge Technologies, Inc., Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
We derived a substantial majority, 91.9% and 92.1%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively.
During the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, we recognized $4.0 million and $11.4 million of expenses, net of insurance proceeds of $6.1 million and $16.4 million, respectively.
   (2) During the three months ended August 31, 2017, the decrease in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of sales and collections activity.
   (3) During the three months ended February 28, 2018, the increase in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the increase in inventories to support expected sales levels in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 along with overall increased demand.
   (4) During the three months ended November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter due to increased demand in the mobility business as well as the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 38% due to a 36% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and a 2% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare business.
EMS segment revenues increased 7% primarily due to a 3% increase in revenues due to a new customer and from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, a 3% increase in revenues from customers within our capital equipment business, a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our digital home business and a 1% increase in revenues from customers in our automotive and transportation business.


