On July 6, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”). Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. Cavium designs, develops and markets semiconductor processors for intelligent and secure networks. The consolidated financial statements include the operating results of Cavium for the period from the date of acquisition to the Company's third quarter ended November 3, 2018. See “Note 3 - Business Combination” for more information. 
We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot ensure that the foundries we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations.
One of our primary focuses is on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “design wins,” to develop products for use in our customers’ products. We devote significant time and resources in working with our customers’ system designers to understand their future needs and to provide products that we believe will meet those needs and these bid selection processes can be lengthy. If a customer’s system designer initially chooses a competitor’s product, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products for use in that system because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for our customers. Thus, our failure to win a competitive bid can result in our foregoing revenues from a given customer’s product line for the life of that product. In addition, design opportunities may be infrequent or may be delayed. Our ability to compete in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to design products to ensure compliance with our customers’ and potential customers’ specifications. We expect to invest significant time and resources and to incur significant expenses to design our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. 
A significant portion of our business is dependent on the HDD and SSD storage industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies.
Since the date of the acquisition, Cavium contributed $212.9 million and $254.3 million of the consolidated net revenue for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018. Cavium net loss incurred in the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018 was $184.8 million and $305.4 million, which included restructuring costs of $19.1 million and $41.4 million, respectively. 
1)Storage products are comprised primarily of HDD, SSD Controllers, Fibre Channel Adapters and Data Center Storage Solutions.
•challenges in maintaining existing, and establishing new, business relationships. 
2)Networking products are comprised primarily of Ethernet Switches, Ethernet Transceivers, Ethernet NICs, Embedded Communications and Infrastructure Processors, Automotive Ethernet, Security Adapters and Processors as well as Connectivity products. In addition, this grouping includes a few legacy product lines in which the Company no longer invests, but will generate revenue for several years. 
As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip.
While we attempt to create multiple sources for our products, most of our products are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it would be difficult for us to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. This could result in a material decline in our revenue, net income and cash flow.In the third quarter of fiscal 2019, our net revenue increased year over year by 38.1% from $616.3 million net revenue in the third quarter fiscal 2018 compared with $851.1 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. The increase was primarily due to a 57% increase in our networking product sales and 29% increase in our storage product sales, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 4% in relation to the three months ended October 28, 2017. Our net revenue for the nine months ended November 3, 2018 increased by $327.2 million compared to net revenue for the nine months ended October 28, 2017. The increase was primarily due to increased sales of our networking products by 29% and storage products by 14%, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. The growth was offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 5% in relation to the nine months ended October 28, 2017. 
Our net revenue for the three months ended November 3, 2018 increased by $234.7 million compared to net revenue for the three months ended October 28, 2017. This was primarily due to increased sales of our networking products by 57% and higher sales of our storage products by 29%, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium, which occurred in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which were down 4% compared to the three months ended October 28, 2017. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.
The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking and infrastructure markets, is extremely competitive. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures. For example, we are facing, and expect we will continue to face, significant competition in the infrastructure, networking and SSD storage markets. Additionally, customer expectations and requirements have been evolving rapidly. For example, customers now expect us to provide turnkey solutions and commit to future roadmaps that have technical risks. 
We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot ensure that the foundries we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations.
If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed.
One of our primary focuses is on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “design wins,” to develop products for use in our customers’ products. We devote significant time and resources in working with our customers’ system designers to understand their future needs and to provide products that we believe will meet those needs and these bid selection processes can be lengthy. If a customer’s system designer initially chooses a competitor’s product, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products for use in that system because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for our customers. Thus, our failure to win a competitive bid can result in our foregoing revenues from a given customer’s product line for the life of that product. In addition, design opportunities may be infrequent or may be delayed. Our ability to compete in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to design products to ensure compliance with our customers’ and potential customers’ specifications. We expect to invest significant time and resources and to incur significant expenses to design our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. 
A significant portion of our business is dependent on the HDD and SSD storage industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies.