On July 6, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”). Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. Cavium designs, develops and markets semiconductor processors for intelligent and secure networks. The consolidated financial statements include the operating results of Cavium for the period from the date of acquisition to the Company's second quarter ended August 4, 2018. See “Note 3 - Business Combination” for more information. 
We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot ensure that the foundries we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations.
One of our primary focuses is on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “design wins,” to develop products for use in our customers’ products. We devote significant time and resources in working with our customers’ system designers to understand their future needs and to provide products that we believe will meet those needs and these bid selection processes can be lengthy. If a customer’s system designer initially chooses a competitor’s product, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products for use in that system because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for our customers. Thus, our failure to win a competitive bid can result in our foregoing revenues from a given customer’s product line for the life of that product. In addition, design opportunities may be infrequent or may be delayed. Our ability to compete in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to design products to ensure compliance with our customers’ and potential customers’ specifications. We expect to invest significant time and resources and to incur significant expenses to design our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. 
Since the date of the acquisition, Cavium contributed $41.3 million of the consolidated net revenue for the three and six months ended August 4, 2018. Cavium net loss incurred in the period ended August 4, 2018 was $120.6 million, which included restructuring costs of $22.3 million. 
A significant portion of our business is dependent on the HDD and SSD storage industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies.
The income tax benefit of $30.0 million and $26.2 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended August 4, 2018, included a tax benefit from a net reduction in unrecognized tax benefits of $7.5 million and $7.2 million, respectively, and a tax benefit related to other discrete items recorded in the three and six month period of $2.8 million and $2.4 million, respectively. 
The Company operates in one reportable segment — the design, development and sale of integrated circuits.
1)Storage products are comprised primarily of HDD, SSD Controllers, Fibre Channel Adapters and Data Center Storage Solutions.
•challenges in maintaining existing, and establishing new, business relationships. 
2)Networking products are comprised primarily of Ethernet Switches, Ethernet Transceivers, Ethernet NICs, Embedded Communications and Infrastructure Processors, Automotive Ethernet, Security Adapters and Processors as well as Connectivity products. In addition, this grouping includes a few legacy product lines in which the Company no longer invests, but will generate revenue for several years. In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, our net revenue increased year over year by 10.0% from $604.8 million net revenue in the second quarter fiscal 2018 compared with $665.3 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The increase was primarily due to a 15% increase in our networking product sales and 8% increase in our storage product sales, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 3% in relation to the three months ended July 29, 2017. Our net revenue for the six months ended August 4, 2018 increased by $92.5 million compared to net revenue for the six months ended July 29, 2017. The increase was primarily due to increased sales of our networking products by 13% and storage products by 6%, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. The growth was offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 6% in relation to the six months ended July 29, 2017. 
Our net revenue for the three months ended August 4, 2018 increased by $60.6 million compared to net revenue for the three months ended July 29, 2017. This was primarily due to increased sales of our networking products by 15% and higher sales of our storage products by 8%, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium, which occurred in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which were down 3% compared to the three months ended July 29, 2017. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.
The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking and connectivity markets, is extremely competitive. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures. For example, we are facing, and expect we will continue to face, significant competition in the networking and SSD storage markets. Additionally, customer expectations and requirements have been evolving rapidly. For example, customers now expect us to provide turnkey solutions and commit to future roadmaps that have technical risks. 
We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot ensure that the foundries we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations.
If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed.
One of our primary focuses is on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “design wins,” to develop products for use in our customers’ products. We devote significant time and resources in working with our customers’ system designers to understand their future needs and to provide products that we believe will meet those needs and these bid selection processes can be lengthy. If a customer’s system designer initially chooses a competitor’s product, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products for use in that system because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for our customers. Thus, our failure to win a competitive bid can result in our foregoing revenues from a given customer’s product line for the life of that product. In addition, design opportunities may be infrequent or may be delayed. Our ability to compete in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to design products to ensure compliance with our customers’ and potential customers’ specifications. We expect to invest significant time and resources and to incur significant expenses to design our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. 
A significant portion of our business is dependent on the HDD and SSD storage industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies.