fls.txt



item1.txt
These pricing providers utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available for these securities, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities.
 To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we group our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions.
In either case, we consider variable consideration only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur.
As of July 27, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants associated with the Senior Notes.
Violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products to the federal government.
For example, the retention value of our compensation plans decreases after the payment of annual bonuses or the vesting of equity awards.
As of July 27, 2018, we have not fully completed the accounting for the tax impacts of the TCJA.
We incur costs to comply with the disclosure requirements of this law and may realize other costs relating to the sourcing and availability of minerals used in our products.
There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the three months ended July 27, 2018, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2018.
Warranty expense accrued during the period includes amounts accrued for systems at the time of shipment, adjustments for changes in estimated costs for warranties on systems shipped in the period and changes in estimated costs for warranties on systems shipped in prior periods.
In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, we will complete the accounting of the tax effects of the TCJA within the measurement period not to extend beyond one year from the enactment date.
This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted.
We completed all workforce related activities under this plan as of the end of fiscal 2017.
We expect this decision to be complete during our fiscal year 2019 or 2020.


item2.txt
We expect to fund our capital expenditures, including our commitments related to facilities, equipment, operating leases and internal-use software development projects over the next few years through existing cash, cash equivalents, investments and cash generated from operations.
DIO for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was relatively consistent with the fourth quarter of 2018, while it decreased compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018, primarily due to lower levels of purchased components on hand at the end of the current quarter.
In order to successfully digitally transform, data must become the lifeblood of an organization and be used as a business accelerator.
Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize product revenues for these arrangements, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions, upon product acceptance.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we generated cash from operating activities of $326 million, reflecting net income of $283 million, adjusted by non-cash depreciation and amortization of $49 million, and stock-based compensation of $40 million, compared to $250 million of cash generated from operating activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
As of July 27, 2018, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $200 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 2.28% and maturities ranging from 14 days to 31 days.


item3.txt
Consequently, our interest expense would fluctuate with any changes in these market interest rates or in our credit rating if we were to borrow any amounts under the credit facility.


item4.txt



part2.txt
These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption-based offerings.
Increased component costs, increased pricing and discounting pressures, the relative and varying rates of increases or decreases in component costs and product prices, or changes in the mix of revenue or decreased volume from product, software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services could harm our revenues, gross margins or earnings.
The benefits we have received, and expect to receive, from these and other acquisitions depend on our ability to successfully conduct due diligence, negotiate the terms of the acquisition and integrate the acquired business into our systems, procedures and organizational structure.
In addition, unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors or the ability of such customers, resellers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products.
In addition, as we move operations into lower-cost jurisdictions and outsource certain business processes, we become subject to new regulatory regimes and lose control of certain aspects of our operations and, as a consequence, become more dependent upon the systems and business processes of third-parties.
The following discussion reflects our current judgment regarding the most significant risks we face.
Our failure to adjust to emerging standards in the storage and data management industry may harm our business.
If we reduce, modify or eliminate our equity programs, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining critical employees.


