fls.txt



item1.txt
These arrangements are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets.
As of January 25, 2019, we have not been required to make any payments under these arrangements, and we believe the likelihood of having to acquire a material amount of assets or make payments under these arrangements is remote.
In addition, all our debt and credit facility arrangements subject us to continued compliance with restrictive and financial covenants.
As a result, tax expense from the sale of an asset in the seller’s tax jurisdiction is recognized when the transfer occurs, even though the pre-tax effects of that transaction are eliminated in consolidation.
Consolidation among suppliers, particularly within the semiconductor and disk drive industries, has contributed to price rigidity and may in the future create supply constraints.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
The costs of third-party components comprise a significant portion of our product costs.
Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel and to preserve the key aspects of our corporate culture.
If we are unable to maintain and develop relationships with strategic partners, our revenues may be harmed.
 As of January 25, 2019 and April 27, 2018, the unrealized losses on our available-for-sale investments were caused by market value declines as a result of increasing market interest rates.
We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions with employees, resellers, strategic partners and customers, to protect our proprietary rights.
Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $13.6 billion of our common stock.
Otherwise, it is allocated to all the performance obligations in the contract.
Because the declines in market value are attributable to changes in market conditions and not credit quality, and because we have determined that (i) we do not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii) it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis, we have determined that no other-than-temporary impairments were required to be recognized on these investments as of January 25, 2019 and April 27, 2018.


item2.txt
Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default.
While most of our arrangements for sales include short-term payment terms, from time to time we provide long-term financing to creditworthy customers.
Our effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was 12.6% compared to an effective tax rate of 120.0% for the corresponding period of fiscal 2018.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we generated $661 million from maturities and sales of investments, net of purchases, and paid $138 million for capital expenditures, while during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we used $178 million for the purchase of investments, net of maturities and sales, and paid $97 million for capital expenditures.
Included in compensation costs are salaries, benefits, other compensation-related costs, stock-based compensation expense and employee incentive compensation plan costs.
Accordingly, our prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and supplementary data, as presented herein, have been restated to conform to the new rules.
FlexPod is the converged infrastructure of choice for many of the largest enterprises around the globe.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in market interest rates from levels as of January 25, 2019 would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our fixed-income securities of approximately $46 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-U.S. customers.
Accordingly, our operating results may be harmed.
Continuing global economic uncertainty, political conditions and fiscal challenges in the United States (U.S.) and abroad have, among other things, limited our ability to forecast future demand for our products, contributed to increased periodic volatility in the computer, storage and networking industries at large, as well as the IT market, and could constrain future access to capital for our suppliers, customers and partners.
We may experience losses due to a customer’s inability to pay.
In addition, as we move operations into lower-cost jurisdictions and outsource certain business processes, we become subject to new regulatory regimes and lose control of certain aspects of our operations and, as a consequence, become more dependent upon the systems and business processes of third-parties.
Even if we were not found to have violated such laws, the political and media scrutiny surrounding any governmental investigation of us could cause us significant expense and reputational harm.
We utilize forward and option contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities.
We do not review the information or content that our clients and their customers upload and store, and, therefore, we have no direct control over the substance of the information or content stored within our platforms.


