fls.txt



item1.txt
 During the six months ended October 25, 2019, we sold approximately $1.0 billion of corporate bonds held by foreign subsidiaries and recognized a gain on sale of $14 million, which is presented in other income, net on our condensed consolidated statement of operations.
We have generally sold receivables financed through these arrangements on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions within 10 days of the contracts’ dates of execution, and we classify the proceeds from these sales as cash flows from operating activities in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Management has previously approved several restructuring actions, including the May 2018 Plan and April 2019 Plan, under which we reduced our global workforce by less than 2%, and approximately 1%, respectively.
The timing and amount of future dividends will depend on market conditions, corporate business and financial considerations and regulatory requirements.
Our clients and customers use our platforms for the transmission and storage of sensitive data.
When a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable, we record a liability in the amount of our best estimate for the ultimate loss.
For instance, some of our partners are also partnering with our competitors, which may increase the availability of competing solutions and harm our ability to grow our relationships with those partners.
For example, the retention value of our compensation plans decreases after the payment of annual bonuses or the vesting of equity awards.
Our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or our insurers may deny coverage as to any future claim.
As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities.
We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions with employees, resellers, strategic partners and customers, to protect our proprietary rights.
If we refuse to indemnify or defend such claims, even in situations in which the third-party’s allegations are meritless, then customers and resellers may refuse to do business with us.
We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations.


item2.txt
This repayment was funded through the sale of short-term commercial paper notes issued under our existing program and cash on hand.
See Note 12 – Restructuring Charges of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more details.
Prior to this grouping change, Hybrid FAS products and branded E-Series were included in Strategic, while all add-on hardware and OS software were included in Mature.
If collectability is not probable, the cash received is recorded as a deposit liability and revenue is deferred until the arrangement is deemed collectible.
Interest income decreased in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2020 compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year due to a reduction in size of our investment portfolio as a result of our sale of approximately $1.0 billion of available-for-sale debt securities in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We provide a full range of hybrid cloud data services that simplify management of applications and data across cloud and on-premises environments to accelerate digital transformation.
In September 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell certain land and buildings located in Sunnyvale, California, through two separate and independent closings, the first of which was completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
Defaults upon Senior Securities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Increased component costs, increased pricing and discounting pressures, the relative and varying rates of increases or decreases in component costs and product prices, or changes in the mix of revenue or decreased volume from product, software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services offerings could harm our revenues, gross margins or earnings.
Beyond our open credit arrangements, some of our customers have entered into recourse and non-recourse financing leasing arrangements using third-party leasing companies.
The risks associated with our outsourced manufacturing model are particularly acute when we transition products to new facilities or manufacturers, introduce and increase volumes of new products or qualify new contract manufacturers or suppliers, at which times our ability to manage the relationships among us, our manufacturing partners and our component suppliers, becomes critical.
In particular, strategic partnerships with hyperscalers and cloud service vendors are critical to the success of our cloud-based business.
Any such litigation may be time-consuming and costly.
Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions.
We rely on a limited number of suppliers for drives and other components utilized in the assembly of our products, including certain single source suppliers, which has subjected us, and could in the future subject us, to price rigidity, periodic supply constraints, and the inability to produce our products with the quality and in the quantities demanded.
We often incur expenses before we receive related benefits, and expenses may be difficult to reduce quickly if demand declines.


