fls.txt



item1.txt
If our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we may not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted.
The following discussion reflects our current judgment regarding the most significant risks we face.
are introduced, we must also avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and related components and ensure that new products and services can be delivered to meet customers’ demands.
Variable lease cost is primarily attributable to amounts paid to lessors for common area maintenance and utility charges under our real estate leases.
It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors might emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or buying power.
Our success depends significantly upon developing, maintaining and protecting our proprietary technology.
As of July 26, 2019, we have certain equity incentive awards (awards) outstanding, which include stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), including time-based RSUs and performance-based RSUs (PBRSUs), and Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) awards.
As of April 26, 2019, we had completed the accounting for the tax impacts of the TCJA, however, we will continue to assess the impact of further guidance from federal and state tax authorities on our business and consolidated financial statements, and recognize any adjustments in the period in which they are determined.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) was enacted into law.
Charges related to our restructuring plans consisted primarily of employee severance-related costs.
Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize product revenues for these arrangements, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions, upon product acceptance.
Any such litigation may be time-consuming and costly.
Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $13.6 billion of our common stock.
 Our 2.00% Senior Notes and 3.30% Senior Notes, each with a principal amount of $400 million, were issued in September 2017.


item2.txt
We deliver a Data Fabric with consistent data services for data visibility and insights, data access and control, and data protection and security, that unleashes the power of data to achieve a new competitive advantage.
Accounts receivable decreased $672 million, reflecting lower DSO.
We focus on delivering an exceptional customer experience to become our customers’ preferred data partner.
Since the May 13, 2003 inception of this program through July 26, 2019, we repurchased a total of 317 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $37.80 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $12.0 billion.
As of July 26, 2019, our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $13.6 billion of our common stock.
The decrease in facilities and IT support costs for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year was primarily due to lower spending levels on IT projects.


item3.txt
Borrowings under the facility accrue interest at rates that vary based on certain market rates and our credit rating on our Senior Notes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties has negatively affected our revenues in the past, and could negatively affect our revenues in the future.
processes, we become subject to new regulatory regimes and lose control of certain aspects of our operations and, as a consequence, become more dependent upon the systems and business processes of third-parties.
Any failure of a manufacturer or component supplier to meet our quality, quantity or delivery requirements in a cost-effective manner will harm our business, operating results and customer relationships.
Some of our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and other laws affecting the countries in which our products and services may be sold, distributed, or delivered, and any violation of these laws could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Our clients may authorize third-party technology providers to access their data on our systems.
Further risks inherent in the introduction of new products, services and solutions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors’ responses to the introductions, delays in sales caused by the desire of customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time and our partners’ investment in selling our new products and solutions.
Cloud service providers provide customers storage for their data centers on demand, without requiring a capital expenditure, which meets rapidly evolving business needs and has changed the competitive landscape.
The U.S. government is an important customer for us.


