fls.txt



item1.txt
As of October 26, 2018 and April 27, 2018, such liability amounted to $16 million and $14 million, respectively, and is included in accrued expenses in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize product revenues for these arrangements, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions, upon product acceptance.
avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and related components and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers’ demands.
Americas revenues consist of sales to Americas commercial and U.S. public sector markets.
The new standard also impacts our estimation of variable consideration for certain arrangements with contract terms such as rights of return, potential penalties and acceptance clauses.
High-profile cyberattacks and security breaches have increased in recent years, and security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyberattacks targeting IT products and businesses.
The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
We rely on a limited number of suppliers for drives and other components utilized in the assembly of our products, including certain single source suppliers, which has subjected us, and could in the future subject us, to price rigidity, periodic supply constraints, and the inability to produce our products with the quality and in the quantities demanded.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new standard, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), which establishes a comprehensive new revenue recognition model designed to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Moreover, some of our partners, particularly large, more diversified technology companies, are also competitors, thereby complicating our relationships.
We expect this examination to conclude within the next 12 months.
The aggregate intrinsic value represents the pre-tax difference between the exercise price of stock options and the quoted market price of our stock on that day for all in-the-money options.
In addition, in matters for which injunctive relief or other conduct remedies are sought, unfavorable resolutions could include an injunction or other order prohibiting us from selling one or more products at all or in particular ways or requiring other remedies.
 As of October 26, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations related to customer contracts that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied was $3,206 million, which is equivalent to our deferred revenue and unearned services revenue balance.


item2.txt
We have entered into service contracts with certain of our end-user customers that are supported by third-party financing arrangements.
Accounts receivable decreased $269 million, reflecting lower DSO.
Continually fuel business growth by delivering data-rich customer experiences through new application deployments that easily use data and services regardless of where they reside or in what form.
We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed.
Product revenues as a percentage of net revenues increased two percentage points and three percentage points in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2018.
Costs represented 29% of hardware maintenance and other services revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to 30% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018.
While most of our arrangements for sales include short-term payment terms, from time to time we provide long-term financing to creditworthy customers.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Furthermore, any economic failure or other material disruption caused by natural disasters, including fires, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, and volcanoes; power loss or shortages; environmental disasters; telecommunications or business information systems failures or break-ins and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business.
Our gross margins are also impacted by the cost of any materials that are of poor quality and our sales and distribution activities, including, without limitation, pricing actions, rebates, sales initiatives and discount levels, and the timing of service contract renewals.
Consolidation among suppliers, particularly within the semiconductor and disk drive industries, has contributed to price rigidity and may in the future create supply constraints.
These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-Q or elsewhere.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Our gross margins reflect a variety of factors, including competitive pricing, component and product design, and the volume and relative mix of revenues from product, software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services.
Any failure of a manufacturer or component supplier to meet our quality, quantity or delivery requirements in a cost-effective manner will harm our business, operating results and customer relationships.
These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-Q or elsewhere.


