fls.txt



item1.txt
On August 4, 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Greenqloud ehf., a privately-held provider of cloud management software based in Iceland, for $51 million in cash, of which we preliminarily allocated $10 million to developed technology, $38 million to goodwill, and the remainder to other assets.
In February 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that amends guidance on how entities account for the derecognition of a nonfinancial asset or an in substance nonfinancial asset that is not a business.
The remainder of the expense relates to the sale of buildings and land in the current quarter.
Our gross margins vary.
expense or accounting treatment of the $739 million expense we have recorded in relation to the transition tax.
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.
particularly large, more diversified technology companies, are also competitors, complicating our relationships.
Our failure to adjust to emerging standards in the storage and data management industry may harm our business.
We may redeem the Senior Notes in whole or in part, at any time at our option at specified redemption prices.
The statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for interim financial information.
accounting for deferred commissions, including costs that qualify for deferral and the amortization period.
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
Our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of natural disasters, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events.


item2.txt
We are the data authority for hybrid cloud environments.
Our E-Series high-performance storage area network platform is designed to meet demanding performance and capacity requirements of dedicated workloads, while retaining simplicity and an optimized price to performance ratio.
In connection with certain recourse financing arrangements, we receive advance payments associated with undelivered elements that are subject to customer refund rights.
As of January 26, 2018, we had $387 million in non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory.
Due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash payments, we cannot make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the taxing authorities.
On July 17, 2017 we amended the Program to increase the maximum amounts available that may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed to an aggregate face or principal amount of the notes outstanding of $1.0 billion, as compared to $600 million prior to the amendment.
Days inventory outstanding, referred to as DIO, measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our products.


item3.txt
Defaults upon Senior Securities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our international operations including, among other things, local political or economic conditions, trade protection and export and import requirements, tariffs, local labor conditions, transportation costs, government spending patterns, acts of terrorism, international conflicts and natural disasters in areas with limited infrastructure.
The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements.
We generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers, resellers and distributors for extended periods of time, and thus we may not be able to continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors.
During periods of economic uncertainty, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases.
As a result, many of these changes, if enacted, could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations.
Violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products to the federal government.
Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.
Although the DOJ and GSA currently have no claims pending against us, we could face claims in the future.


