fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method and have applied the guidance to all contracts within the scope of ASC Topic 606 as of the February 1, 2018 adoption date.
Accordingly, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our revenue recognition and there was no cumulative effective adjustment as of February 1, 2018 as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 606.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.
The transfer of control generally occurs at one point in time, upon shipment, when title and risk of loss pass to the customer.
The majority of our hardware products contain embedded operating systems and data management software which is included in the purchase price of the equipment.
Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and are accounted for as a single performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to the customer.
The delivery of installation and training services are not assessed to determine whether they are separate performance obligations, as the amounts are not material to the contract.
Service agreements are purchased separately from the equipment and provide for the right to obtain service and maintenance on the equipment for a period of typically one to two years.
The portion of service contracts and extended warranty services agreements that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.
The decrease in the deferred revenue balance during the three months ended April 28, 2018 is primarily due to approximately $175,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2018, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, amortization of these incremental direct costs was $9,000 and the balance of deferred incremental direct costs net of accumulated amortization at April 28, 2018 was $973,000 which is reported in other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
Generally speaking, the contracts are all individual procurement decisions by the customers and do not include renewal provisions and as such the majority of the contracts have an economic life of significantly less than a year.
The Honeywell Agreement also provided for guaranteed minimum royalty payments of $15.0 million, to be paid to Honeywell over the next ten years, based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products.
The royalty rates vary based on the year in which they are paid or earned and product sold or service provided, and range from single-digit to mid double-digit percentages of gross revenue.
The minimum royalty payment obligation of $15.0 million was recorded at the present value of the minimum annual royalty payments using a present value factor of 2.8%, which is based on the estimated after tax cost of debt for similar companies.
At April 28, 2018, the current portion of the royalty obligation to be paid over the next twelve months is $1.5 million and is reported as a current liability and the remainder of $11.4 million is reported as a long-term liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company incurred $0.5 million in excess royalty expense, which is included in cost of goods sold in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income for the three months ended April 28, 2018.


item2.txt
Supplies includes the media (substrate) and ink, toner, and thermal transfer ribbon used with the Company’s printers and the various parts used to maintain the printers.
Three Months Ended April 28, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended April 29, 2017 Revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $31.5 million, representing a 28.7% increase compared to the previous year first quarter revenue of $24.5 million.
International revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $12.3 million, a 39.7% increase over the previous year first quarter and represents 39% of AstroNova’s first quarter’s revenue.
Other expense in the first quarter of the fiscal 2019 was $0.3 million compared to $48 thousand in the prior year first quarter.
The Company reported net income of $0.8 million or $0.12 per diluted share for the first quarter of the current year, which included after-tax income of $0.8 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement.
Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 7.0% in the first quarter of the current year, with revenue of $20.0 million compared to $18.6 million in the same period of the prior year.
The current year first quarter also received a strong contribution from the supplies product line revenue which increased 7.2% from the same period in the prior year.


item4.txt



part2.txt
(a) Employees of the Company delivered 2,383 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.


