Our products are employed around the world in a wide range of applications in the aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation industries.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
The accounting polices used in preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q are the same as those used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended January 31, 2019, except for the change resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, “Leases (“Topic 842”), as provided below.
Operating Right-of-use (“ROU”) assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Company’s obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” ASU 2016-02 and its subsequent amendments supersede previous guidance related to accounting for leases and are intended to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring lessees to recognize assets and liabilities in the balance sheet for operating leases with lease terms greater than twelve months.
Also upon adoption, the Company elected the package of practical expedients, which, include not reassessing 1) whether any expired or existing contracts contain leases, 2) lease classifications of expired or existing leases, and 3) initial direct costs, if any, for existing leases.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of ROU assets and lease liabilities of $2.0 million as of February 1, 2019.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement.” ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying or adding certain disclosures.
The provisions of ASU 2018-13 relating to changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware, including digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of hardware and (iv) service agreements.
The decrease in the deferred revenue balance during the three months ended May 4, 2019 is primarily due to approximately $205,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2019, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.Three Months Ended May 4, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended April 28, 2018 Revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $36.2 million, representing a 14.9% increase compared to the previous year first quarter revenue of $31.5 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year first quarter was $22.0 million, an increase of 14.6% over the prior year’s first quarter.
International revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $14.2 million, a 15.8% increase over the previous year first quarter, and represents 39.2% of AstroNova’s first quarter’s revenue.
Other expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.4 million compared to $0.3 million in the prior year first quarter.
Other expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 consists primarily of interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million.
On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year first quarter was $0.8 million or $0.12 per diluted share, which included after-tax income of $0.8 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into as a part of the fiscal 2018 Honeywell licenses and product line acquisition.
Return on revenue was 4.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 2.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.Executives of the Company delivered 3,549 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.