We recorded income tax expense during the first three months of fiscal 2019 of $2.5 million compared to $4.5 million for the same period in fiscal 2018. Our effective tax rate for the first three months of fiscal 2019 was 27% in comparison to 61% for the same period in fiscal 2018. 
The year-over-year increase in our warranty reserve was primarily due to an increase in unit sales volume. 
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support. 
We design, manufacture and sell computerized machine tools. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support. 
During the first three months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, we recorded approximately $709,000 and $549,000, respectively, of stock-based compensation expense related to grants under the 2008 Plan and the 2016 Equity Plan. As of January 31, 2019, there was an estimated $5.6 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation cost that we expect to recognize by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Operating Income. Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $8.2 million compared to $7.2 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase in operating income year-over-year was primarily driven by the increased volume of sales of vertical milling machines. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $22.1 million, or 30% of sales, compared to $20.1 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of vertical milling machines. 
Orders in the Americas for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. This increase was primarily attributable to increased customer demand in the U.S. for vertical milling machines. 
Sales of computerized machine tools for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 7%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4%. The year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools reflected increased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in the U.S., India and China, partially offset by decreased shipments of Takumi bridge mills in China and Hurco vertical milling machines in Italy, France and Germany. Sales of computer control systems and software for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 22%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to increased sales in the U.S. and France. Sales of service parts increased by 18% during the first quarter of 2019, compared to the corresponding prior year period, reflecting increased aftermarket sales of service parts across all three regions and product lines. Sales of service fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 6%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket service of Hurco products in Germany. Operating Income. Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $8.2 million compared to $7.2 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase in operating income year-over-year was primarily driven by the increased volume of sales of vertical milling machines. 
We recorded income tax expense during the first three months of fiscal 2019 of $2.5 million compared to $4.5 million for the same period in fiscal 2018. Our effective tax rate for the first three months of fiscal 2019 was 27% in comparison to 61% for the same period in fiscal 2018. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $22.1 million, or 30% of sales, compared to $20.1 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of vertical milling machines. 
Orders in the Americas for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. This increase was primarily attributable to increased customer demand in the U.S. for vertical milling machines. 
Sales of computerized machine tools for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 7%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4%. The year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools reflected increased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in the U.S., India and China, partially offset by decreased shipments of Takumi bridge mills in China and Hurco vertical milling machines in Italy, France and Germany. Sales of computer control systems and software for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 22%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to increased sales in the U.S. and France. Sales of service parts increased by 18% during the first quarter of 2019, compared to the corresponding prior year period, reflecting increased aftermarket sales of service parts across all three regions and product lines. Sales of service fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 6%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket service of Hurco products in Germany. 
Sales in the Americas for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 39%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and reflected improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for vertical milling machines 
European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 7%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The decrease in European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to an unfavorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes, and decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in Italy and France. 
Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 3%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to increased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in India and China, partially offset by decreased shipments of Takumi bridge mills in China. 
We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets. 
Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international, industrial technology company operating in a single segment. We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and application support. 