We recorded income tax expense during the first six months of fiscal 2019 of $4.9 million compared to $6.2 million for the same period in fiscal 2018. Our effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was 29%, compared to 48% in the corresponding prior year period. 
The year-over-year increase in our warranty reserve was primarily due to an increase in unit sales volume. 
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training, and applications support. 
We design, manufacture and sell computerized machine tools. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support. 
During the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, we recorded $1.4 million and $1.2 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation expense related to grants under the 2008 Plan and the 2016 Equity Plan. As of April 30, 2019, there was an estimated $5.2 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation cost that we expect to recognize by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2022. 
Depending upon geographic location, after shipment, a machine may be installed at the customer’s facilities by a distributor, independent contractor or by one of our service technicians. In most instances where a machine is sold through a distributor, we have no installation involvement. If sales are direct or through sales agents, we will typically complete the machine installation, which consists of the reassembly of certain parts that were removed for shipping and the re-testing of the machine to ensure that it is performing within the standard specifications. We consider the machine installation process for our three-axis machines to be inconsequential and perfunctory. For our five-axis machines that we install, we estimate the fair value of the installation performance obligation and recognize that installation revenue on a prorate basis over the period of the installation process. 
We recognize revenues from the sale of machine tools, components and accessories and services and reflect the consideration to which we expect to be entitled. We record revenues based on a five-step model in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidance codified in ASC 606. In accordance with ASC 606, we have defined contracts as agreements with our customers and distributors in the form of purchase orders, packing or shipping documents, invoices, and, periodically, verbal requests for components and accessories. For each contract, we identify our performance obligations, which is delivering goods or services, determine the transaction price, allocate the contract transaction price to the performance obligations (when applicable), and recognize the revenue when (or as) the performance obligation is transferred to the customer. A good or service is transferred when the customer obtains control of that good or service. Our computerized machine tools are general purpose computer controlled machine tools that are typically used in stand-alone operations. Prior to shipment, we test each machine to ensure the machine’s compliance with standard operating specifications. We deem that the customer obtains control upon delivery of the product and that obtaining control is not contingent upon contractual customer acceptance. Therefore, we recognize revenue from sales of our machine tool systems upon delivery of the product to the customer or distributor, which is normally at the time of shipment. 
From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing. We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in ASC 460). As of April 30, 2019, we had 24 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $0.6 million. The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms. Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership and control. The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine. A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing. We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant. 
We adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on November 1, 2018, the start of our 2019 fiscal year, and elected the modified retrospective method as of the date of adoption. Prior to the adoption of ASC 606, our revenues were already recognized in the same manner as that required by ASC 606. Therefore, the adoption of ASC 606 did not have an effect on our beginning retained earnings or our overall financial statements as of and for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019. 
On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 30,557 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – ROIC”. These PSUs were weighted as approximately 35% of the overall 2019 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the achievement of pre-established goals related to our average return on invested capital over the three-year period of fiscal 2019-2021. Participants will have the ability to earn between 50% of the target number of the PSUs - ROIC for achieving threshold performance and 200% of the target number of the PSUs - ROIC for achieving maximum performance. The grant date fair value of the PSUs – ROIC was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $36.08 per share. Operating Income. Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $7.5 million, compared to $6.0 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by an increased sales mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales. 
Operating Income. Operating income for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was $15.8 million, compared to $13.1 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by an increased sales mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was $43.8 million, or 30% of sales, compared to $39.4 million, or 28% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected an increased mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales, as well as margin contribution from the vertical milling machine sales from the newly acquired distributor. 
Income Taxes. The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was 29%, compared to 48% in the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year decrease in the effective tax rate for the first six months was primarily due to one-time charges of $2.9 million related to the Tax Reform Act recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The impact of these one-time charges increased the effective tax rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.  
Sales of computerized machine tools for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in sales was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines by the newly acquired distributor. Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 15%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France. Sales of service parts and service fees increased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 by 10% and 6%, respectively, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increases were primarily attributable to sales of aftermarket sales and service by the newly acquired distributor. 
Orders in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 3%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to decreased customer demand in the U.S. for vertical milling machines, partially offset by an increase in orders for vertical milling machines by the newly acquired distributor. European orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 20%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 5% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year decrease in European orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines. Asian Pacific orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 22%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year decrease in Asian Pacific orders was mainly the result of decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi machines in China. 
Sales in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 10%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase in sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines from a U.S. machine tool distributor acquired by Hurco in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 located in California, one of the largest machine tool markets in the U.S., and increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in the U.S. European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were relatively unchanged compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 7%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, which was largely offset by increased sales of Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany. Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 17%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The decrease in Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines in China and an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 
Sales of computerized machine tools decreased slightly for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 9%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France. Sales of service parts and service fees increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 by 4% and 5%, respectively, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increases were primarily attributable to sales of aftermarket sales and service from the newly acquired distributor. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 