Our effective tax rate for the first three months of fiscal 2018 was 61% in comparison to 38% for the same period in fiscal 2017.
The three-year performance period for the PSUs is fiscal 2018 through fiscal 2020.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Participants will have the ability to earn between 50% of the target number of the PSUs - ROIC for achieving threshold performance and 200% of the target number of the PSUs - ROIC for achieving maximum performance.
Participants will have the ability to earn between 50% of the target number of the PSUs – TSR for achieving threshold performance and 200% of the target number of the PSUs – TSR for achieving maximum performance.
As such, we adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The year-over-year increase in our warranty reserve was primarily due to an increase in unit sales volume, as well as an increase in average warranty cost per machine as our product mix of machines under warranty shifted to more complex, higher-performance machines.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership.
We also amended the U.S. credit agreement to increase the minimum working capital and minimum tangible net worth requirements from $90.0 million to $105.0 million and $120.0 million to $125.0 million, respectively.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $20.1 million, or 29% of sales, compared to $12.6 million, or 26% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
During the first three months of fiscal 2018, approximately 56% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
Operating Income.
The increase in sales of Computerized Machine Tools during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding prior year period was primarily due to increased customer demand from customers across all three regions and for all product lines (Hurco, Takumi and Milltronics).
The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand of Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in China, and included a notable increase in sales of Hurco machines in Southeast Asia.
The increase in European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Italy.