The year-over-year increase in our warranty reserve was primarily due to an increase in the number of machines under warranty resulting from increased sales volume. 
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support. 
During the nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, we recorded $1.8 million and $1.1 million, respectively, as stock-based compensation expense related to grants under our equity plans. As of July 31, 2018, there was an estimated $3.5 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation cost that we expect to recognize by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2021. 
On December 6, 2016, we entered into a fourth amendment to our U.S. credit agreement to, among other things, increase the unsecured revolving credit facility from $12.5 million to $15.0 million, to increase the cash dividend allowance from $4.0 million per calendar year to $5.0 million per calendar year, and to extend the scheduled maturity date to December 31, 2018. The U.S. credit agreement, as amended, provides for the issuance of up to $5.0 million in letters of credit. We also amended the U.S. credit agreement to increase the minimum working capital and minimum tangible net worth requirements from $90.0 million to $105.0 million and $120.0 million to $125.0 million, respectively. 
From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing. We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 460). As of July 31, 2018, we had 23 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $0.6 million. The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms. Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership. The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine. A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing. We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant. 
In August 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, which requires management to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entity’s ability to continue as a going concern and provide related footnote disclosures. ASU No. 2014-15 is effective for our fiscal year 2018, including interim periods within the fiscal year. As such, we adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. This standard did not have a significant effect on our accounting policies or on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 
On January 3, 2018, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 21,891 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – ROIC”. These PSUs were weighted as approximately 35% of the overall 2018 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the achievement of pre-established goals related to our average return on invested capital over the three-year period of fiscal 2018-2020. Participants will have the ability to earn between 50% of the target number of the PSUs - ROIC for achieving threshold performance and 200% of the target number of the PSUs - ROIC for achieving maximum performance. The grant date fair value of the PSUs – ROIC was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $42.20 per share. 
On January 3, 2018, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 20,734 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – TSR”. These PSUs were weighted as approximately 40% of the overall 2018 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the total shareholder return of our common stock over the three-year period of fiscal 2018-2020, relative to the total shareholder return of the companies in a specified peer group over that period. Participants will have the ability to earn between 50% of the target number of the PSUs – TSR for achieving threshold performance and 200% of the target number of the PSUs – TSR for achieving maximum performance. The grant date fair value of the PSUs – TSR was $45.68 per PSU and was calculated using the Monte Carlo approach. 
On February 16, 2017, we amended our credit facility in China to decrease the credit facility from 40.0 million Chinese Yuan to 20.0 million Chinese Yuan (approximately $2.9 million). On February 14, 2018, we renewed this facility with an expiration date of February 13, 2019. We had $1.5 million of borrowings under our China credit facility at each of July 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017, respectively, which bears interest at variable rates of 4.4% annually at each of the respective dates. We also have a £1.0 million revolving credit facility in the United Kingdom and a €1.5 million revolving credit facility in Germany. We had no other debt or borrowings under any of our other credit facilities at either of those dates. 
We are exposed to certain market risks relating to our ongoing business operations, including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. We manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities. Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution. Operating Income. Operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $9.4 million compared to $5.1 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period. 
The year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools and computer control systems and software for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, exclusive of a 3% favorable currency impact, was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all of our three geographic regions. Sales of service parts increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket sales in the Americas and France. Service fees increased slightly in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to increased demand for aftermarket service in the United Kingdom and the Americas. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $24.5 million, or 31% of sales, compared to $17.5 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was $64.0 million, or 29% of sales, compared to $47.2 million, or 28% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period. 
Operating Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $15.2 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $12.4 million, or 20% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The year-over-year increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was driven by an unfavorable currency impact of $0.1 million, when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, as well as increased expenses for global marketing and employee incentive compensation. 
We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets. 
Sales in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 13%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, due primarily to improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for the Hurco and Milltronics product lines. The increase in sales was mainly attributable to an increased sales volume of vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi product lines. European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 31%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and France. Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 55%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling and lathe machines in China and India. 
Orders in the Americas for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 7%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The increase was largely attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines. For the nine months of fiscal 2018, European orders increased by 34%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 11%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year increase in European orders in the nine months ended July 31, 2018 was driven predominantly by increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom, and increased demand for LCM machine tool components and accessories. Asian Pacific orders for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 27%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year increase in orders was mostly due to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China, India and Southeast Asia, partially offset by a reduction in customer demand for Takumi vertical milling machines in China. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. 