We recorded income tax expense during the nine months of fiscal 2019 of $6.1 million compared to $8.7 million for the same period in fiscal 2018. Our effective tax rate for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was 28%, compared to 40% in the corresponding prior year period. 
The year-over-year decrease in our warranty reserve was primarily due to a decrease in the number of machines under warranty. 
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training, and applications support. 
On August 5, 2019, we (through a newly-formed subsidiary) acquired substantially all of the assets of a U.S.-based robotics integration company for approximately $4.5 million. This acquired business sells standardized robotic machine-tending systems for small to midsize machine shops and other manufacturing companies that utilize CNC machine tools. The acquired business will operate as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hurco Companies, Inc. 
We design, manufacture and sell computerized machine tools. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support. 
Depending upon geographic location, after shipment, a machine may be installed at the customer’s facilities by a distributor, independent contractor or by one of our service technicians. In most instances where a machine is sold through a distributor, we have no installation involvement. If sales are direct or through sales agents, we will typically complete the machine installation, which consists of the reassembly of certain parts that were removed for shipping and the re-testing of the machine to ensure that it is performing within the standard specifications. We consider the machine installation process for our three-axis machines to be inconsequential and perfunctory. For our five-axis machines that we install, we estimate the fair value of the installation performance obligation and recognize that installation revenue on a prorata basis over the period of the installation process. 
During the nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, we recorded $2.1 million and $1.8 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation expense related to grants under the 2008 Plan and the 2016 Equity Plan. As of July 31, 2019, there was an estimated $4.2 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation cost that we expect to recognize by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2022. 
We recognize revenues from the sale of machine tools, components and accessories and services and reflect the consideration to which we expect to be entitled. We record revenues based on a five-step model in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidance codified in ASC 606. In accordance with ASC 606, we have defined contracts as agreements with our customers and distributors in the form of purchase orders, packing or shipping documents, invoices, and, periodically, verbal requests for components and accessories. For each contract, we identify our performance obligations, which is delivering goods or services, determine the transaction price, allocate the contract transaction price to each of the performance obligations (when applicable), and recognize the revenue when (or as) the performance obligation to the customer is fulfilled. A good or service is transferred when the customer obtains control of that good or service. Our computerized machine tools are general purpose computer controlled machine tools that are typically used in stand-alone operations. Prior to shipment, we test each machine to ensure the machine’s compliance with standard operating specifications. We deem that the customer obtains control upon delivery of the product and that obtaining control is not contingent upon contractual customer acceptance. Therefore, we recognize revenue from sales of our machine tool systems upon delivery of the product to the customer or distributor, which is normally at the time of shipment. 
From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing. We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in ASC 460). As of July 31, 2019, we had 24 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $0.6 million. The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms. Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership and control. The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine. A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing. We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant. 
On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 30,557 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – ROIC”. These PSUs were weighted as approximately 35% of the overall 2019 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the achievement of pre-established goals related to our average return on invested capital over the three-year period of fiscal 2019-2021. Participants will have the ability to earn between 50% of the target number of the PSUs - ROIC for achieving threshold performance and 200% of the target number of the PSUs - ROIC for achieving maximum performance. The grant date fair value of the PSUs – ROIC was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $36.08 per share. Operating Income. Operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $4.6 million, compared to $9.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The decrease in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by the reduction in sales volume. 
Operating Income. Operating income for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was $20.4 million, compared to $22.5 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The decrease in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by the reduction in sales volume. 
Sales of computerized machine tools and computer control systems and software decreased by 29% and 16%, respectively, for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to a reduced volume of shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines. Sales of service parts decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, primarily due to a reduction in aftermarket sales of service parts for all three product lines, Hurco, Takumi and Milltronics. Service fees increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 by 2%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase was primarily attributable to aftermarket service from the newly acquired distributor. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $17.2 million, or 29% of sales, compared to $24.5 million, or 31% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 remained generally stable at approximately 30%, despite the reduction in sales volume year over year, due to an increased mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales and margin contribution from vertical milling machine sales from the newly acquired distributor. 
Income Taxes. The effective tax rate for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was 28%, compared to 40% in the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months was primarily due to one-time charges of $2.9 million related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The impact of these one-time charges increased the effective tax rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.  
Gross Profit. Gross profit for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was $61.0 million, or 30% of sales, compared to $64.0 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The gross profit for the nine months of fiscal 2019 remained generally stable at approximately 30%, despite the reduction in sales volume year over year, due to an increased mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales and margin contribution from vertical milling machine sales from the newly acquired distributor. 
Orders in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to decreased customer demand in the U.S. for Hurco vertical milling machines, partially offset by an increase in orders for Takumi vertical milling machines and vertical milling machines sold by the newly acquired distributor. European orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 39%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year decrease in orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and France, as well as a decrease in customer demand for electro-mechanical components and accessories manufactured by LCM. Asian Pacific orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 37%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The decrease in orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was mainly the result of decreased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in India and Southeast Asia and Takumi bridge mill machines in China. 
We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. 