Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Forward-Looking Information

In addition to historical information, we have also made forward-looking statements in this report.
These statements are based on our estimates and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations.
Forward-looking statements also include those preceded or followed by the words “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “hopes” or similar expressions.
For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to those discussed below, the risk factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A - “Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (if any) and in Part I, Item 1A - “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (together, the “Risk Factors”), and the factors discussed in the section in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q entitled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements.
Readers should carefully review the Risk Factors and the risk factors set forth in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC.
Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our ability and intention to:

◦Sustain growth or profitability, particularly in light of an uncertain U.S. or worldwide economy and the related impact on customer acquisition and retention rates, customer usage levels, and credit and debit card payment declines;

◦Maintain and increase our Cloud Services customer base and average revenue per user;

◦Generate sufficient cash flow to make interest and debt payments, reinvest in our business, and pursue desired activities and businesses plans while satisfying restrictive covenants relating to debt obligations;

◦Acquire businesses on acceptable terms and successfully integrate and realize anticipated synergies from such acquisitions;

◦Continue to expand our businesses and operations internationally in the wake of numerous risks, including adverse currency fluctuations, difficulty in staffing and managing international operations, higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues, or the implementation of adverse regulations;

◦Maintain our financial position, operating results and cash flows in the event that we incur new or unanticipated costs or tax liabilities, including those relating to federal and state income tax and indirect taxes, such as sales, value-added and telecommunication taxes;

◦Accurately estimate the assumptions underlying our effective worldwide tax rate;

◦Continue to pay a comparable cash dividend on a quarterly basis;

◦Maintain favorable relationships with critical third-party vendors whose financial condition will not negatively impact the services they provide;

◦Create compelling digital media content causing increased traffic and advertising levels; additional advertisers or an increase in advertising spend; and effectively target digital media advertisements to desired audiences;

◦Manage certain risks inherent to our business, such as costs associated with fraudulent activity, system failure or security breach; effectively maintaining and managing our billing systems; time and resources required to manage our legal proceedings; liability for legal and other claims; or adhering to our internal controls and procedures;

◦Compete with other similar providers with regard to price, service, and functionality;

◦Cost-effectively procure, retain and deploy large quantities of telephone numbers in desired locations in the United States and abroad;

◦Achieve business and financial objectives in light of burdensome domestic and international telecommunications, internet or other regulations, including regulations related to data privacy, access, security, retention, and sharing;

◦Successfully manage our growth, including but not limited to our operational and personnel-related resources, and integration of newly acquired businesses;


◦Successfully adapt to technological changes and diversify services and related revenues at acceptable levels of financial return;

◦Successfully develop and protect our intellectual property, both domestically and internationally, including our brands, patents, trademarks and domain names, and avoid infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and

◦Recruit and retain key personnel.
In addition, our financial results could be materially impacted by risks associated with new accounting pronouncements.
Overview

j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, “the Company”, “our”, “us” or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services.
Through our Cloud Services business, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties.
In addition, the Cloud Services business includes fax, voice, backup, security and email marketing products.
Our Digital Media business specializes in the technology, gaming, broadband, business to business, healthcare, and international markets offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
Our Cloud Services business generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
Our Digital Media business generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.
In addition to growing our business organically, on a regular basis we acquire businesses to grow our customer bases, expand and diversify our service offerings, enhance our technologies, acquire skilled personnel and enter into new markets.
Our consolidated revenues are currently generated from three basic business models, each with different financial profiles and variability.
Our Cloud Services business is driven primarily by subscription revenues that are relatively higher margin, stable and predictable from quarter to quarter with some seasonal weakness in the fourth quarter.
The Cloud Services business also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period to period.
Our Digital Media business is driven primarily by advertising revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter.
We continue to pursue additional acquisitions, which may include companies operating under business models that differ from those we operate under today.
Such acquisitions could impact our consolidated profit margins and the variability of our revenues.
Cloud Services Performance Metrics






Digital Media Performance Metrics






Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

In the ordinary course of business, we have made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of results of operations and financial condition in the preparation of our financial statements.
Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
Our critical accounting policies are described in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2019.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates.
Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019

Cloud Services

Assuming a stable or improving economic environment, and subject to our risk factors, we expect the revenue and profits as included in the results of operations below in our Cloud Services business to be stable for the foreseeable future (excluding the impact of acquisitions).
The main focus of our Cloud Services offerings is to reduce or eliminate costs, increase sales and enhance productivity, mobility, business continuity and security of our customers as the technologies and devices they use evolve over time.
As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to enhance our existing offerings and offer new services to continue to satisfy the evolving needs of our customers.
Through our IP licensing operations, which are included in the Cloud Services business, we seek to make our IP available for license to third parties, and we expect to continue to attempt to obtain additional IP through a combination of acquisitions and internal development in an effort to increase available licensing opportunities and related revenues.
We expect acquisitions to remain an important component of our strategy and use of capital in this business; however, we cannot predict whether our current pace of acquisitions will remain the same within this business.
In a given period, we may close greater or fewer acquisitions than in prior periods or acquisitions of greater or lesser significance than in prior periods.
Moreover, future acquisitions of businesses within this space but with different business models may impact Cloud Services’ overall profit margins.
Also, as IP licensing often involves litigation, the timing of licensing transactions is unpredictable and can and does vary significantly from period to period.
This variability can cause the overall business’s financial results to materially vary from period to period.
Digital Media

Assuming a stable or improving economic environment, and, subject to our risk factors, we expect the revenue and profits in our Digital Media business to improve over the next several quarters as we integrate our recent acquisitions and over the longer term as advertising transactions continue to shift from offline to online.
The main focus of our advertising programs is to provide relevant and useful advertising to visitors to our websites and those included within our advertising networks, reflecting our commitment to constantly improve their overall web experience.
As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to improve the relevance of the ads displayed on our websites and those included within our advertising networks.
The operating margin we realize on revenues generated from ads placed on our websites is significantly higher than the operating margin we realize from revenues generated from those placed on third-party websites.
Growth in advertising revenues from our websites has generally exceeded that from third-party websites.
This trend has had a positive impact on our operating margins, and we expect that this will continue for the foreseeable future.
However, the trend in advertising spend is shifting to mobile devices and other newer advertising formats which generally experience lower margins than those from desktop computers and tablets.
We expect this trend to continue to put pressure on our margins.
We expect acquisitions to remain an important component of our strategy and use of capital in this business; however, we cannot predict whether our current pace of acquisitions will remain the same within this business.
In a given period, we may close greater or fewer acquisitions than in prior periods or acquisitions of greater or lesser significance than in prior periods.
Moreover, future acquisitions of businesses within this space but with different business models may impact Digital Media’s overall profit margins.
We anticipate that the stable revenue trend in our Cloud Services business combined with the improving revenue and profits in our Digital Media business will result in overall improved revenue and profits for j2 Global on a consolidated basis, excluding the impact of any future acquisitions which can vary dramatically from period to period.
We expect operating profit as a percentage of revenues to generally decrease in the future primarily due to the fact that revenue with respect to our Digital Media business (i) is increasing as a percentage of our revenue on a consolidated basis and (ii) has historically operated at a lower operating margin.
Revenues



Our revenues consist of revenues from our Cloud Services business and from our Digital Media business.
Cloud Services revenues primarily consist of revenues from “fixed” customer subscription revenues and “variable” revenues generated from actual usage of our services.
We also generate Cloud Services revenues from IP licensing.
Digital Media revenues primarily consist of advertising revenues, subscriptions earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, certain data products or services to customers, fees paid for generating business leads, and licensing and sale of editorial content and trademarks.
Our revenues in 2019 have increased over the comparable three month period of 2018 primarily due to a combination of acquisitions and organic growth within both the Digital Media and Cloud Services businesses.
Cost of Revenues



Cost of revenues is primarily comprised of costs associated with data and voice transmission, numbers, content fees, editorial and production costs, network operations, customer service, software licenses for resale, online processing fees and equipment depreciation.
The increase in cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to an increase in costs associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the first quarter 2018 that resulted in additional royalties and customer service costs.
Operating Expenses

Sales and Marketing.
Our sales and marketing costs consist primarily of internet-based advertising, sales and marketing, personnel costs and other business development-related expenses.
Our internet-based advertising relationships consist primarily of fixed cost and performance-based (cost-per-impression, cost-per-click and cost-per-acquisition) advertising relationships with an array of online service providers.
Advertising cost for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $36.2 million (primarily consists of $25.2 million of third-party advertising costs and $9.8 million of personnel costs) compared to 2018 of $38.5 million (primarily consists of $25.3 million of third-party advertising costs and $10.6 million of personnel costs).
Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019 remained consistent with the prior comparable period.
Research, Development and Engineering.
Our research, development and engineering costs consist primarily of personnel-related expenses.
The increase in research, development and engineering costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019 versus the prior comparable period was primarily due to an increase in costs associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the first quarter 2018.
General and Administrative.
Our general and administrative costs consist primarily of personnel-related expenses, depreciation and amortization, changes in the fair value associated with contingent consideration, share-based compensation expense, bad debt expense, professional fees, severance and insurance costs.
The increase in general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 versus the prior comparable period was primarily due to additional amortization of intangible assets, increased depreciation expense, personnel costs relating to businesses acquired in and subsequent to the first quarter 2018; partially offset by lower bad debt expense.
Share-Based Compensation



Non-Operating Income and Expenses

Interest expense, net.
Our interest expense, net is generated primarily from interest expense due to outstanding debt, partially offset by interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments.
Interest expense, net was $16.0 million and $15.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Interest expense, net increased over the prior comparable period primarily due to lower interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments.
Other expense, net.
Our other expense, net is generated primarily from miscellaneous items, gain or losses on currency exchange and gains or losses on investments.
Other expense, net was $2.2 million and $4.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Other expense, net decreased over the prior comparable period due to decreased losses on equity securities, partially offset by increased losses on currency exchange.
Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate is based on pre-tax income, statutory tax rates, tax regulations (including those related to transfer pricing) and different tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate.
The tax bases of our assets and liabilities reflect our best estimate of the tax benefits and costs we expect to realize.
When necessary, we establish valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that will more likely than not be realized.
Provision for income taxes amounted to $(0.3) million and $7.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Our effective tax rate was (0.9)% and 27.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
1.a decrease during 2019 from a reduction in our reserve for uncertain tax positions;

2.a decrease during 2019 from a reduction in the amount of expenses disallowed by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017; partially offset by

3.a decrease in the benefit of a portion of our income being taxed in foreign jurisdictions and subject to lower tax rates than in the U.S.
Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis.
We believe our tax positions, including intercompany transfer pricing policies, are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business.
Certain of these tax positions have in the past been, and are currently being, challenged, and this may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate if our tax reserves are insufficient.
Equity Method Investment

Net loss in earnings of equity method investment.
Net loss in earnings of equity method investment is generated from our investment in the OCV Fund for which we receive annual audited financial statements.
The investment in the OCV Fund is presented net of tax and on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV.
If the Company becomes aware of a significant decline in value, the loss will be recorded in the period in which the Company identifies the decline.
The net loss in earnings of equity method investment was $0.5 million and zero, net of tax benefit for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized management fees of $0.8 million and zero, net of tax benefit, respectively.
Cloud Services and Digital Media Results


We evaluate the performance of our businesses based on revenues, including both external and interbusiness net sales, and operating income.
We account for interbusiness sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the businesses.
Identifiable assets by business are those assets used in the respective business’s operations.
Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, deferred income taxes and certain other assets.
All significant interbusiness amounts are eliminated to arrive at our consolidated financial results.
Cloud Services



Cloud Services’ net sales of $152.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $2.8 million, or 1.8%, from the prior comparable period due to business acquisitions.
Cloud Services’ gross profit of $119.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $1.3 million, or 1.1%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to business acquisitions.
Cloud Services’ operating expenses of $61.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased $0.4 million and is consistent with the prior comparable period.
As a result of these factors, Cloud Services’ operating income of $58.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $1.6 million, or 2.9%, from the prior comparable period.
Digital Media



Digital Media’s net sales of $147.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $16.5 million, or 12.6%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to business acquisitions.
Digital Media’s gross profit of $129.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $15.1 million, or 13.3%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to business acquisitions.
Digital Media’s operating expenses of $130.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $12.7 million from the prior comparable period primarily due to (a) additional amortization of intangible assets; (b) increased depreciation expense; (c) additional expense associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the prior comparable period comprised primarily of salary and related costs; and (d) an allocation of certain shared Corporate operating costs.
As a result of these factors, Digital Media’s operating (loss) income of $(1.0) million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased $2.4 million, or 70.4%, from the prior comparable period.
Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments

At March 31, 2019, we had cash and investments of $320.3 million compared to $293.3 million at December 31, 2018.
The increase in cash and investments resulted primarily from cash provided by operating activities; partially offset by business acquisitions, dividends paid, purchases of property and equipment.
At March 31, 2019, cash and investments consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $226.6 million and long-term investments of $93.7 million.
Our investments consist of equity and debt securities.
For financial statement presentation, we classify our debt securities primarily as short- and long-term based upon their maturity dates.
Short-term investments mature within one year of the date of the financial statements and long-term investments mature one year or more from the date of the financial statements.
We retain a substantial portion of our cash and investments in foreign jurisdictions for future reinvestment.
As of March 31, 2019, cash and investments held within domestic and foreign jurisdictions were $252.0 million and $68.3 million, respectively.
On February 6, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4450 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on March 12, 2019 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 25, 2019.
On May 2, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4550 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on June 4, 2019 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 20, 2019.
Future dividends are subject to Board approval.
However, based on the significant number of current investment opportunities within the Company’s portfolio of businesses and the historic returns from prior investments, the Board of Directors has decided to suspend dividend payments for the foreseeable future after the June 4, 2019 payment.
On September 25, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the Company’s entry into a commitment to invest $200 million in an investment fund (the “Fund”) over several years at a fairly ratable rate.
The manager, OCV Management, LLC (“OCV”), and general partner of the Fund are entities with respect to which Richard S. Ressler, Chairman of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Company, is indirectly the majority equity holder.
As a limited partner in the Fund, the Company will pay an annual management fee to the manager equal to 2.0% (reduced by 10% each year beginning with the sixth year) of capital commitments.
In addition, subject to the terms and conditions of the Fund’s limited partnership agreement, once the Company has received distributions equal to its invested capital, the Fund’s general partner will be entitled to a carried interest equal to 20%.
The Fund has a six year investment period, subject to certain exceptions.
The commitment was approved by the Audit Committee of the Board in accordance with the Company’s related-party transaction approval policy.
During the first quarter 2019, the Company received capital call notices from the management of OCV Management, LLC.
for $9.8 million, inclusive of certain management fees, of which $9.8 million has been paid for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
We currently anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital, capital expenditure, stock repurchases and cash dividends for at least the next 12 months.
Cash Flows

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations, together with cash and cash equivalents.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $116.9 million and $103.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Our operating cash flows resulted primarily from cash received from our customers offset by cash payments we made to third parties for their services, employee compensation and interest payments associated with our debt.
The increase in our net cash provided by operating activities in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily attributable to an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses and increased depreciation and amortization; partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable, lower uncertain tax positions and reduced deferred revenue.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $226.6 million and $209.5 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Net cash used in investing activities was $81.7 million and $107.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to business acquisitions, capital expenditures associated with the purchase of property and equipment and the purchase of investments..
The decrease in our net cash used in investing activities in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to reduced business acquisitions.
Net cash used in financing activities was $19.3 million and $20.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to dividends paid, repurchases of stock and business acquisitions; partially offset by proceeds associated with the exercise of stock options.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to dividends paid, repurchases of stock and business acquisitions.
The change in net cash used in financing activities in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily attributable to the proceeds from the exercise of stock options; partially offset by the payment of dividends and business acquisitions.
Stock Repurchase Program

In February 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 20, 2020.
During the three month period ended March 31, 2019, we repurchased zero shares under this program.
Cumulatively at March 31, 2019, 2.7 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $101.1 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).
Contractual Obligations and Commitments













As of March 31, 2019, our liability for uncertain tax positions was $54.1 million.
The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with such authorities.
We have not presented contingent consideration associated with acquisitions (other than the $40.0 million in contingent consideration associated with the acquisition of Humble Bundle) in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and the timing of cash settlements.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We are not party to any material off-balance sheet arrangements.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds


 None.
Effective February 15, 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 20, 2020.
Cumulatively at March 31, 2019, 2.7 million shares were repurchased under the 2012 Program at an aggregate cost of $101.1 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).
In December 2018, the Company acquired 600,000 shares of j2 Global common stock in connection with the 2012 Program and subsequently retired the shares in March 2019 (see Note 12 - Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
As a result of the acquisition of j2 Global common stock through the Company’s share repurchase program, the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program is 1,338,689 shares of j2 Global common stock.
During the three month period ended March 31, 2019, we repurchased zero shares under this program.
