Item 1.Financial Statements
J2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 J2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
J2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
J2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 (Unaudited, in thousands)
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
J2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2019
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Basis of Presentation
J2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“J2 Global”, the “Company”, “our”, “us”, or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services.
Through our Cloud Services business, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties.
In addition, the Cloud Services business includes fax, voice, backup, security, consumer privacy and protection (“CPP”), and email marketing products.
Our Digital Media business specializes in the technology, gaming, broadband, business to business (“B2B”), healthcare, and international markets, offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of J2 Global and its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with instructions for Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and note disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for complete financial statements although the Company believes that the disclosures made are adequate to make that information not misleading.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been reflected in these interim financial statements.
It is suggested that these financial statements be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report (Form 10-K) filed with the SEC on March 1, 2019.
Accordingly, significant accounting policies and other disclosures normally provided have been omitted since such items are disclosed therein.
The results of operations for this interim period are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full year or for any future period.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, including judgments about investment classifications and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
The Company believes that its most significant estimates are those related to revenue recognition, valuation and impairment of investments, its assessment of ownership interests as variable interest entities and the related determination of consolidation, share-based compensation expense, assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations, long-lived and intangible asset impairment, contingent consideration, income taxes and contingencies and allowances for doubtful accounts.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates based on historical experience and on various other factors that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results could materially differ from those estimates.
Allowances for Doubtful Accounts
J2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect.
The reserves for the Company’s Cloud Services business are typically driven by the volume of credit card declines and past due invoices and are based on historical experience as well as an evaluation of current market conditions.
The reserves for the Company’s Digital Media business are typically driven by past due invoices based on historical experience.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves.
Revenue Recognition
J2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
Principal vs.
Agent
The Company determines whether revenue should be reported on a gross or net basis by assessing whether the Company is acting as the principal or an agent in the transaction.
If the Company is acting as the principal in a transaction, the Company
Sales Taxes
The Company has made an accounting policy election to exclude from the measurement of the transaction price all taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are (i) both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction and (ii) collected by the Company from a customer.
Fair Value Measurements
J2 Global complies with the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ASC Topic No.
820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements.
ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to J2 Global.
Investments
The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No.
320, Investments - Debt Securities (“ASC 320”).
Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate debt securities.
J2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income.
Available-for-sale debt securities are those investments J2 Global does not intend to hold to maturity and can be sold.
Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in other comprehensive income.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
All debt securities are accounted for on a specific identification basis.
The Company accounts for its investments in equity securities in accordance with ASC Topic No.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
Any unrealized gains or losses will be reported in current earnings (see Note 5 - Investments).
Variable Interest Entities (“VIE”)
a) the Company has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impacts the VIEs economic performance (the power criterion); and
b) the Company has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE, or the right to receive benefits of the VIE, that could potentially be significant to the VIE (the economic criterion).
The Company has concluded that, as a limited partner, although the obligations to absorb losses or benefit from the gains is not insignificant, the Company does not have “power” over OCV because it does not have the ability to direct the significant decisions which impact the economics of OCV.
J2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance.
As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
See Note 5, “Investments”.
OCV qualifies as an investment company under ASC 946 - Financial Services, Investment Companies (“ASC 946”).
Under ASC Topic 323, Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures, an investor that holds investments that qualify for specialized industry accounting for investment companies in accordance with ASC 946 should record its share of the earnings or losses, realized or unrealized, as reported by its equity method investees in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV.
If the Company becomes aware of a significant decline in value that is other-than-temporary, the loss will be recorded in the period in which the Company identifies the decline.
Debt Issuance Costs and Debt Discount
J2 Global capitalizes costs incurred with borrowing and issuance of debt securities and records debt issuance costs and discounts as a reduction to the debt amount.
These costs and discounts are amortized and included in interest expense over the life of the borrowing using the effective interest method.
Debt issuance costs associated with entering into the Credit Facility are recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as an asset and amortized and included in interest expense over the contractual term of the Credit Agreement.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are stated at cost.
Equipment under capital leases is stated at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years.
Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less.
The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment.
The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project and ranges from 1 to 5 years.
Contingent Consideration
J2 Global measures the contingent earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
The Company may use various valuation techniques depending on the terms and conditions of the contingent consideration including a Monte-Carlo simulation.
This simulation uses a probability distribution for each significant input to produce hundreds or thousands of possible outcomes and the results are analyzed to determine probabilities of different outcomes occurring.
Significant increases or decreases to these inputs in isolation would result in a significantly higher or lower liability with a higher liability capped by the contractual maximum of the contingent earn-out obligation.
Ultimately, the liability will be equivalent to the amount paid, and the difference between the fair value estimate and the amount paid will be recorded in earnings.
The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Any amount paid in excess of the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in operating activities.
J2 Global reviews and re-assesses the estimated fair value of contingent consideration on a quarterly basis, and the updated fair value could be materially different from the initial estimates or prior quarterly amounts.
Changes in the estimated fair value of our contingent earn-out liabilities are reported in operating income.
Adjustments to the estimated fair value related to changes in all other unobservable inputs are reported in operating income.
Self-Insurance Program
J2 Global provides health and dental insurance plans for certain of its employees through a self-insurance structure.
The Company has secured reinsurance in the form of a two tiered stop-loss coverage that limits the exposure arising from any claims made.
Self-insurance claims filed and claims incurred but not reported are accrued based on management’s estimate of the discounted ultimate costs for self-insured claims incurred using actuarial assumptions followed in the insurance industry and historical experience.
Although management believes it has the ability to reasonably estimate losses related to claims, it is possible that actual results could materially differ from recorded self-insurance liabilities.
Segment Reporting
Reclassifications
Certain prior year reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2019 presentation.
2.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Digital Media
Digital Media revenues are earned primarily from the delivery of advertising services, from subscriptions to services, data and information, and from licensing.
Revenue from subscriptions is earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, data products or services to customers.
Subscriptions cover video games and related content, health information, data and other copyrighted material.
Revenues under such agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the service.
Revenues are also earned from listing fees, subscriptions to online publications, and from other sources.
Subscription revenues are recognized over time.
J2 Global generates Digital Media revenues through the license of certain assets to clients.
Assets are licensed for clients’ use in their own promotional materials or otherwise.
Such assets may include logos, editorial reviews, or other copyrighted material.
Revenues under such license agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the asset.
Technology assets are also licensed to clients.
These assets are recognized over the term of the access period.
The Digital Media business also generates revenue from other sources which include marketing and production services.
Such other revenues are generally recognized over the period in which the products or services are delivered.
J2 Global also generates Digital Media revenues from transactions involving the sale of perpetual software licenses, related software support and maintenance, hardware used in conjunction with its software, and other related services.
Revenue is recognized for these software transactions with multiple performance obligations after (i) the Company has had an approved contract and is committed to perform the respective obligations and (ii) the Company can identify and quantify each obligation and its respective selling price.
Once the respective performance obligations have been identified and quantified, revenue will be recognized when the obligations are met, either over time or at a point in time depending on the nature of the obligation.
Revenues from software license performance obligations are generally recognized upfront at the point in time that the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
Revenues for related software support and maintenance
performance obligations are related to technical support provided to customers as needed and unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches during the term of the support period when they are available.
The Company is obligated to make the support services available continuously throughout the contract period.
Therefore, revenues for support contracts are generally recognized ratably over the contractual period the support services are provided.
Hardware product and related software performance obligations, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a bundled performance obligation.
The revenues for this bundled performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware and software products are delivered and ownership is transferred to the customer.
Other service revenues are generally recognized over time as the services are performed.
The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to revenue generated (i) by the Company serving online display and video advertising across its owned and operated web properties, on third-party sites or on unaffiliated advertising networks, (ii) through the Company’s lead-generation business and (iii) through the Company’s subscriptions.
The Company records revenue on a net basis with respect to revenue paid to the Company by certain third-party advertising networks who serve online display and video advertising across the Company’s owned-and-operated web properties and certain third-party sites.
Cloud Services
The Company’s Cloud Services revenues substantially consist of monthly recurring subscription and usage-based fees, which are primarily paid in advance by credit card.
The Company defers the portions of monthly, quarterly, semi-annually and annually recurring subscription and usage-based fees collected in advance of the satisfaction of performance obligations and recognizes them in the period earned.
Along with our numerous proprietary Cloud Services solutions, the Company also generates revenues by reselling various third-party solutions, primarily through our email security and online backup lines of business.
These third-party solutions, along with our proprietary products, allow the Company to offer customers a variety of solutions to better meet their needs.
The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to reseller revenue because the Company has control of the specified good or service prior to transferring control to the customer.
J2 Global’s Cloud Services also include patent license revenues generated under license agreements that provide for the payment of contractually determined fully paid-up or royalty-bearing license fees to J2 Global in exchange for the grant of non-exclusive, retroactive and future licenses to our intellectual property, including patented technology.
Patent revenues may also consist of revenues generated from the sale of patents.
Patent license arrangements are evaluated to determine if they grant the customer a right to access the Company’s intellectual property which is generally recognized over the life of the arrangement or a right to use the Company’s intellectual property which is generally recognized at the point in time the license is granted.
With regard to royalty-bearing license arrangements, the Company recognizes revenues of license fees earned during the applicable period.
The Cloud Services business also generates revenues by licensing certain technology to third parties.
Generally, revenue is recognized over time as the third party uses the licensed technology over the period.
The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 and its related standard updates in January 2018 using a modified-retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of initially applying the Update recognized at the date of application in retained earnings.
The change in accounting principle in the first quarter of 2018 resulted in an adjustment to the Company’s retained earnings of $1.6 million (see Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity).
The Company has recorded $20.5 million and $10.9 million of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $105.0 million and $67.9 million of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which was previously included in the contract liability balance as of the beginning of each respective year.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company acquired $27.5 million of deferred revenue in connection with the Company’s business acquisitions (see Note 4 - Business Acquisitions) which are subject to purchase accounting adjustments.
Performance Obligations
The Company’s contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations.
For such arrangements, revenues are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Digital Media business upon delivery of services to its customers.
In addition, the Company provides content to its advertising partners which the Company sells to its partners’ customer base and receives a revenue share based on the terms of the agreement.
The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Cloud Services business upon delivery of services to its customers.
Payment terms vary by type and location of our customers and the services offered.
The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant.
Due to the nature of the services provided, there are no obligations for returns.
Significant Judgments
In determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment.
Judgment is also required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation.
Performance Obligations Satisfied Over Time
Advertising
•Website reporting by the Company, the customer, or a third-party contains the delivery evidence needed to satisfy the performance obligations within the advertising contract
•Commission is evidenced by direct site reporting from the affiliate or via direct confirmation from the customer
Subscription
•Evidence of delivery is contained in the Company’s systems or from correspondence with the customer which tracks when a customer accepts delivery of any assets, digital keys or download links
The Company has concluded revenue is recognized based on delivery of services over the contract period for advertising and on a straight-line basis over the contract period for subscriptions.
The Company believes that the methods described are a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
•Faxing capabilities are provided
•Voice services are provided
•Email marketing services are provided
•Consumer privacy services are provided
•Security solutions, including email and endpoint are provided
•Online data backup capabilities are provided
The Company has concluded that the best measure of progress toward the complete satisfaction of the performance obligation over time is a time-based measure.
The Company recognizes revenue on a straight-line basis throughout the subscription period and believes that the method used is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
Performance Obligations Satisfied at a Point in Time
The Company’s Digital Media business has technology subscriptions that have standalone functionality.
As a result, they are considered to be functional intellectual property where the performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time.
This is evidenced once a digital key is delivered to the customer.
Once the key is delivered to the customer, the customer has full control of the technology and the Company has no further performance obligations.
The Company has concluded that revenue is recognized once the digital key is delivered.
The Company believes that this method is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
Practical Expedients
Existence of a Significant Financing Component in a Contract
As a practical expedient, the Company has not assessed whether a contract has a significant financing component because the Company expects at contract inception that the period between payment by the customer and the transfer of promised goods or services by the Company to the customer will be one year or less.
In addition, the Company has determined that the payment terms that the Company provides to its customers are structured primarily for reasons other than the provision of finance to the Company.
The Company typically charges a single upfront amount for the services because other payment terms would affect the nature of the risk assumed by the Company to provide service given the costs of the customer acquisition and the highly competitive and commoditized nature of the business we operate which allows customers to easily move from one provider to another.
This additional risk may make it uneconomical to provide the service.
Costs to Fulfill a Contract
The Company’s revenues are primarily generated from customer contracts that are for one year or less.
Costs primarily consist of incentive compensation paid based on the achievements of sales targets in a given period for related revenue streams and are recognized in the month when the revenue is earned.
Incentive compensation is paid on the issuance or renewal of the customer contract.
As a practical expedient, for amortization periods which are determined to be one year or less, the Company expenses any incremental costs of obtaining the contract with a customer when incurred.
For those customers with amortization periods determined to be greater than one year, the Company capitalizes and amortizes the expenses over the period of benefit.
In addition, the Company partners with various affiliates in order to generate a portion of its revenue for certain lines of business.
The commissions earned by the Company’s affiliates are incentive based and are paid based on the acquisition of new customers in a given period.
For those customers with amortization periods determined to be greater than one year, the Company capitalizes and amortizes the expenses over the period of benefit.
Revenues Invoiced
The Company has applied the practical expedient for certain revenue streams to exclude the value of remaining performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected term of one year or less or (ii) contracts for which the Company recognizes revenue in proportion to the amount it has the right to invoice for services performed.
The Company uses acquisitions as a strategy to grow its customer base by increasing its presence in new and existing markets, expand and diversify its service offerings, enhance its technology, and acquire skilled personnel.
The condensed consolidated statement of income since the date of each acquisition and balance sheet as of September 30, 2019, reflect the results of operations of all 2019 acquisitions.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, these acquisitions contributed $68.3 million to the Company’s revenues.
Net income contributed by these acquisitions was not separately identifiable due to J2 Global’s integration activities and is impracticable to provide.
Total consideration for these transactions was $425.8 million, net of cash acquired and assumed liabilities and is subject to certain post-closing adjustments which may increase or decrease the final consideration paid.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company recorded adjustments to prior period acquisitions due to the finalization of purchase accounting in the Fax and Martech businesses which resulted in a net increase in goodwill of $0.2 million.
In addition, the Company recorded adjustments to the initial working capital and to the purchase accounting due to the finalization of prior period acquisitions in the Digital Media business, which resulted in a net decrease in goodwill of $1.1 million (see Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets).
Such adjustments had an immaterial impact on the amortization expense within the condensed consolidated statement of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and represents intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition.
Goodwill recognized associated with these acquisitions during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 is $254.8 million, of which $93.8 million is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Pro Forma Financial Information for All 2019 Acquisitions
The following unaudited pro forma supplemental information is based on estimates and assumptions that J2 Global believes to be reasonable.
However, this information is not necessarily indicative of the Company’s consolidated results of income in future periods or the results that actually would have been realized had J2 Global and the acquired businesses been combined companies during the periods presented.
These pro forma results exclude any savings or synergies that would have resulted from these business acquisitions had they occurred on January 1, 2018.
This unaudited pro forma supplemental information includes incremental intangible asset amortization and other charges as a result of the acquisitions, net of the related tax effects.
Investments consist of equity and debt securities.
The Company determined the equity securities that were received as part of the consideration for the sale of Tea Leaves Health, LLC (“Tea Leaves”) in fiscal year 2017 are without a readily determinable fair value because these securities are privately held, not traded on any public exchanges and not an investment in a mutual fund or similar investment.
As a result, management has elected to alternatively measure this investment at cost, less impairment, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes to estimate fair value.
The Company will make a “reasonable effort” to identify any observable price changes for identical or similar investments with the issuer that are known are can be reasonably known.
Any changes in the carrying value of the equity securities will be reported in current earnings as Other expense, net.
In addition, the Company determined that the shares of redeemable preferred stock that were also received as part of the consideration for the sale of Tea Leaves are corporate debt securities and are classified as available-for-sale securities.
During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded an unrealized loss to earnings because an observable price for a similar instrument was observed in the market at an amount that was below the original carrying price of the investment (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
At September 30, 2019, the Company’s available-for-sale debt securities are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses reported as a component of other comprehensive income.
Recognition and Measurement of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment of Debt Securities
Regardless of the classification of the debt securities as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity, the Company has assessed each position for impairment.
J2 Global regularly reviews and evaluates each investment that has an unrealized loss.
An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis.
Unrealized losses that are determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income for available-for-sale securities.
•the length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost;
•the severity of the impairment;
•the cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer;
•activity in the market of the issuer which may indicate adverse credit conditions; and
•the Company’s ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery.
•identification and evaluation of investments that have indications of possible impairment;
•analysis of individual investments that have fair values less than amortized cost, including consideration of the length of time the investment has been in an unrealized loss position and the expected recovery period;
•discussion of evidential matter, including an evaluation of factors or triggers that could cause individual investments to qualify as having an other-than-temporary impairment and those that would not support an other-than-temporary impairment;
•documentation of the results of these analyses, as required under business policies; and
•information provided by third-party valuation experts.
For these debt securities, a critical component of the evaluation for other-than-temporary impairments is the identification of credit impairment, where management does not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security.
Credit impairment is assessed using a combination of a discounted cash flow model that estimates the cash flows on the underlying securities and a market comparable method, where the security is valued based upon indications from the secondary market of what discounts buyers demand when purchasing similar securities.
The cash flow model incorporates actual cash flows from the securities through the current period and then projects the remaining cash flows using relevant interest rate curves over the remaining term.
These cash flows are discounted using a number of assumptions, some of which include prevailing implied credit risk premiums, incremental credit spreads and illiquidity risk premiums, among others.
Securities that have been identified as other-than-temporarily impaired are written down to their current fair value.
For debt securities that are intended to be sold or that management believes it more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell prior to recovery, the full impairment is recognized immediately in earnings.
For available-for-sale and held-to-maturity debt securities that management has no intent to sell and believes that it more-likely-than-not that it will not be required to sell prior to recovery, only the credit loss component of the impairment is recognized in earnings, while the rest of the fair value impairment is recognized in other comprehensive income.
The credit loss component recognized in earnings is identified as the amount of principal cash flows not expected to be received over the remaining term of the security.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment losses.
On September 25, 2017, the Company entered into a commitment to invest $200 million (approximately 66.7% of equity) in the OCV Fund.
The total expected commitment to the OCV Fund is expected to be approximately $300 million.
The primary purpose of the Fund is to provide a limited number of select investors with the opportunity to realize long-term appreciation from public and private companies, with a particular focus on the technology and life science industries.
The general activities of the OCV Fund is to buy, sell, hold and otherwise invest in securities of every kind and nature and rights and options with respect thereto, including, without limitation, stock, notes, bonds, debentures and evidence of indebtedness; to exercise all rights, powers, privileges and other incidents of ownership or possession with respect to securities held or owned by the OCV Fund; to enter into, make and perform all contracts and other undertakings; and to engage in all activities and transactions as may be necessary, advisable or desirable to carry out the foregoing.
The manager, OCV Management, LLC, and general partner of the Fund are entities with respect to which Richard S. Ressler, Chairman of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Company, is indirectly the majority equity holder and a related party.
As a limited partner in the Fund, the Company will pay an annual management fee to the manager equal to 2.0% (reduced by 10% each year beginning with the sixth year) of capital commitments.
In addition, subject to the terms and conditions of the Fund’s limited partnership agreement, once the Company has received distributions equal to its invested capital, the Fund’s general partner would be entitled to a carried interest equal to 20%.
The Fund has a six year investment period, subject to certain exceptions.
The commitment was approved by the Audit Committee of the Board in accordance with the Company’s related-party transaction approval policy.
In the first nine months of 2019, the Company received capital call notices from the management of OCV Management, LLC.
for $22.3 million, inclusive of certain management fees, of which $22.3 million has been paid for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, the Company received a distribution from OCV of $10.3 million.
The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV.
If the Company becomes aware of a significant decline in value that is other-than-temporary, the loss will be recorded in the period in which the Company identifies the decline.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized an investment loss of $3.5 million and $0.6 million, net of tax benefit, respectively, and during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized an investment (gain) loss of $(0.1) million and $3.6 million, net of tax (expense) benefit, respectively.
The loss (income) is presented in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income as loss (income) from equity investments, net.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized management fees of $0.8 million and $0.8 million, net of tax benefit, respectively, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized management fees of $2.3 million and $3.7 million, net of tax benefit, respectively.
As a limited partner, the Company’s maximum exposure to loss is limited to its proportional ownership in the partnership.
In addition, the Company is not required to contribute capital in an aggregate amount in excess of its capital commitment and any expected losses will not be in excess of the Capital Account.
Finally, there are no call or put options, or other types of arrangements, which limit the Company’s ability to participate in losses and returns of the Fund.
 §Level 1 – Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
 §Level 2 – Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
 §Level 3 – Unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity.
The fair value hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
The Company’s money market funds are classified within Level 1.
The Company values these Level 1 investments using quoted market prices.
Certain of the Company’s debt securities are classified within Level 2.
The Company values these Level 2 investments based on model-driven valuations using significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data.
The fair value of our senior notes is determined using quoted market prices or dealer quotes for instruments with similar maturities and other terms and credit ratings, which are Level 2 inputs.
The fair value of the Credit Facility approximates its carrying amount due to its variable interest rate, which approximates a market interest rate, and is considered a Level 2 input.
The fair value of long-term debt at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively (see Note 8 - Long-Term Debt).
In addition, the Convertible Notes contain terms that may require the Company to pay contingent interest on the Convertible Notes which is accounted for as a derivative with fair value adjustments being recorded to interest expense (see Note 8 - Long Term Debt).
The fair value of this derivative is determined using a binomial lattice convertible bond pricing model using historical and implied market information, which are Level 2 inputs.
In the second quarter of 2019, the Company entered into a $5.5 million note payable that was short-term in nature and associated with the quarter’s acquisition activity.
In the third quarter of 2019, the Company paid down $5.1 million of the outstanding note.
As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of the note payable approximates fair value and is classified within Level 2.
The Company classifies its contingent consideration liability in connection with acquisitions within Level 3 because factors used to develop the estimated fair value are unobservable inputs, such as volatility and market risks, and are not supported by market activity.
The fair value of the contingent consideration liability was determined using option based approaches.
This methodology was utilized because the distribution of payments is not symmetric and amounts are only payable upon certain earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) thresholds being reached.
Such valuation approach included a Monte-Carlo simulation for the contingency since the financial metric driving the payments is path dependent.
For similar reasons, certain of the Company’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified within Level 3.
The fair value of these debt securities was derived using a hybrid approach consisting of two scenarios and subsequent allocation among each of the outstanding securities.
Both scenarios consider unobservable inputs in the market such as time to liquidity, volatility, dividend yield, and breakpoints.
Significant increases or decreases in either of the inputs noted above in isolation would result in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement.
At the end of each reporting period, management reviews the inputs to the fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities to determine when transfers between levels are deemed to have occurred.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, there were no transfers that have occurred between levels.
In connection with the acquisition of Humble Bundle, on October 13, 2017, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $40.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain future EBITDA thresholds and had a fair value of $20.0 million and $40.0 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Due to the Company’s achievement of certain EBITDA targets for the year ended December 31, 2018 and the amended contingent consideration agreement, $20.0 million was paid in the second quarter of 2019 and an additional $20.0 million remains payable and is classified as a current liability on the consolidated balance sheet.
In connection with the acquisition of Ekahau Inc., on October 10, 2018, contingent consideration of up to $15.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain future revenue thresholds and had a fair value of $11.6 million and $3.7 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company recorded an increase in the fair value of the contingent consideration of $8.0 million and reported such increase in general and administrative expenses.
7.Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination.
Intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions of entities accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting are recorded at the estimated fair value of the assets acquired.
Identifiable intangible assets are comprised of purchased customer relationships, trademarks and trade names, developed technologies and other intangible assets.
The fair values of these identified intangible assets are based upon expected future cash flows or income, which take into consideration certain assumptions such as customer turnover, trade names and patent lives.
These determinations are primarily based upon the Company’s historical experience and expected benefit of each intangible asset.
If it is determined that such assumptions are not accurate, then the resulting change will impact the fair value of the intangible asset.
Identifiable intangible assets are amortized over the period of estimated economic benefit, which ranges from one to 20 years.
Amortization expense, included in general and administrative expense, approximated $50.4 million and $35.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $132.2 million and $102.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Amortization expense is estimated to approximate $47.9 million, $145.4 million, $107.8 million, $85.9 million and $51.9 million for the remaining three months of fiscal year 2019 through fiscal year 2023, respectively, and $134.3 million thereafter through the duration of the amortization period.
On June 27, 2017, j2 Cloud Services, LLC (“J2 Cloud”) and J2 Cloud Co-Obligor (the “Co-Issuer” and together with J2 Cloud, the “Issuers”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company, completed the issuance and sale of $650 million aggregate principal amount of their 6.0% senior notes due in 2025 (the “6.0% Senior Notes”) in a private placement offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933.
The 6.0% Senior Notes are presented as long-term debt, net of deferred issuance costs, on the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2019.
The 6.0% Senior Notes bear interest at a rate of 6.0% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on January 15, 2018.
The 6.0% Senior Notes mature on July 15, 2025, and are senior unsecured obligations of the Issuers and are guaranteed on an unsecured basis by certain subsidiaries of J2 Cloud (as defined in the Indenture agreement dated June 27, 2017, the “Indenture”).
If J2 Cloud or any of its restricted subsidiaries acquires or creates a domestic restricted subsidiary, other than an insignificant subsidiary (as defined in the Indenture), after the issue date, or any insignificant subsidiary ceases to fit within the definition of insignificant subsidiary, such restricted subsidiary is required to unconditionally guarantee, jointly and severally, on an unsecured basis, the Issuers’ obligations under the 6.0% Senior Notes.
The Issuers may redeem some or all of the 6.0% Senior Notes at any time on or after July 15, 2020 at specified redemption prices plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding the redemption date.
Before July 15, 2020, in connection with certain equity offerings, the Issuers also may redeem up to 35% of the 6.0% Senior Notes at a price equal to 106.0% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding the redemption date.
In addition, at any time prior to July 15, 2020, the Issuers may redeem some or all of the 6.0% Senior Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium.
The Indenture contains certain restrictive and other covenants applicable to J2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries including, but not limited to, restrictions on (i) paying dividends or making distributions on J2 Cloud’s membership interests or repurchasing J2 Cloud’s membership interests; (ii) making certain restricted payments; (iii) creating liens or entering into sale and leaseback transactions; (iv) entering into transactions with affiliates; (v) merging or consolidating with another company; and (vi) transferring and selling assets.
These covenants include certain exceptions.
Violation of these covenants could result in a default which could result in the acceleration of outstanding amounts if such default is not cured or waived within the time periods outlined in the Indenture.
Restricted payments, specifically dividend payments, are applicable only if J2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries has a leverage ratio of greater than 3.0 to 1.0.
In addition, if such leverage ratio is in excess of 3.0 to 1.0, the restriction on restricted payments is subject to various exceptions, including an exception for the payment of restricted payments up to $75 million.
These contractual provisions did not, as of September 30, 2019, restrict J2 Cloud’s ability to pay dividends to J2 Global, Inc.
The company is in compliance with its debt covenants as of September 30, 2019.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of the 6.0% Senior Notes was approximately $687.6 million and $645.5 million, respectively, and was based on the quoted market prices of debt instruments with similar terms, credit rating and maturities of the 6.0% Senior Notes which are Level 2 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
On June 10, 2014, J2 Global issued $402.5 million aggregate principal amount of 3.25% convertible senior notes due June 15, 2029 (the “Convertible Notes”).
The Convertible Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.25% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year.
Beginning with the six-month interest period commencing on June 15, 2021, the Company must pay contingent interest on the Convertible Notes during any six-month interest period if the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes for each of the five trading days immediately preceding the first day of such interest period equals or exceeds $1,300.
Any contingent interest payable on the Convertible Notes will be in addition to the regular interest payable on the Convertible Notes.
As of September 30, 2019, the conversion rate is 14.7632 shares of J2 Global common stock for each $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, which represents a conversion price of approximately $67.74 per share of J2 Global common stock.
The conversion rate is subject to adjustment for certain events as set forth in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, but will not be adjusted for accrued interest.
In addition, following certain corporate events that occur on or prior to June 20, 2021, J2 Global will increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its Convertible Notes in connection with such a corporate event.
J2 Global may not redeem the Convertible Notes prior to June 20, 2021.
On or after June 20, 2021, J2 Global may redeem for cash all or part of the Convertible Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date.
No sinking fund is provided for the Convertible Notes.
Holders have the right to require J2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes on each of June 15, 2021 and June 15, 2024 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the relevant repurchase date.
In addition, if a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, occurs prior to the maturity date, holders may require J2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date.
Accounting for the Convertible Notes
In accordance with ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, convertible debt that can be settled for cash is required to be separated into the liability and equity component at issuance, with each component assigned a value.
The value assigned to the liability component is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of similar debt without the conversion feature.
The difference between the cash proceeds and estimated fair value of the liability component, representing the value of the conversion premium assigned to the equity component, is recorded as a debt discount on the issuance date.
This debt discount is amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the period from the issuance date through the first stated repurchase date on June 15, 2021.
J2 Global estimated the borrowing rates of similar debt without the conversion feature at origination to be 5.79% for the Convertible Notes and determined the debt discount to be $59.0 million.
As a result, a conversion premium after tax of $37.7 million was recorded in additional paid-in capital.
The aggregate debt discount is amortized as interest expense over the period from the issuance date through the first stated repurchase date on June 15, 2021, which management believes is the expected life of the Convertible Notes using an interest rate of 5.81%.
As of September 30, 2019, the remaining period over which the unamortized debt discount will be amortized is 1.7 years.
The Convertible Notes are carried at face value less any unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs.
The fair value of the Convertible Notes at each balance sheet date is determined based on recent quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the Convertible Notes, which are Level 1 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
If such information is not available, the fair value is determined using cash-flow models of the scheduled payments discounted at market interest rates for comparable debt without the conversion feature.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of the Convertible Notes was approximately $572.6 million and $457.0 million, respectively.
Credit Facility
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company drew down $185.0 million and repaid $57.0 million under its Credit facility.
See Note 10, “Commitments and Contingencies” for additional information.
J2 Global leases certain facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating and finance leases which expire at various dates through 2027.
Office and equipment leases are typically for terms of three to five years and generally provide renewal options for terms up to an additional five years.
Some of the Company’s leases include options to terminate within one year.
In certain agreements in which the Company leases office space where the Company is the tenant, it subleases the site to various other companies through a sublease agreement.
The Company has adopted the new lease standard and related amendments as of January 1, 2019 using the optional transitional method.
Results for reporting periods beginning after the adoption date are presented under Topic 842, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the Company’s historic accounting under ASC 840.
Finance leases are not material to the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and are therefore not included in the disclosures.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 and its related Updates, the Company recorded approximately $72.0 million of right-of-use assets and approximately $75.0 million of operating lease liabilities.
Sublease
Total sublease income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $0.9 million and $0.7 million, respectively, and was $2.4 million and $1.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Total estimated aggregate sublease income to be received in the future is $10.5 million.
Significant Judgments
Discount Rate
The majority of the J2 Global’s leases are discounted using the Company’s incremental borrowing rate as the rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable.
Options
The lease term is generally the minimum noncancelable period of the lease.
The Company does not include option periods unless the Company determined it is reasonably certain of exercising the option at inception or when a triggering event occurs.
Practical Expedients
As a practical expedient, the Company has not separated lease components from nonlease components for its real property operating leases.
Certain of the Company’s leases contain nonlease components such as maintenance and certain utility costs.
•not reassess whether expired or existing contracts contain leases under the new definition of a lease;
•not reassess lease classification for expired or existing leases; and
•
not reassess whether previously capitalized initial direct costs would qualify for capitalization under Topic 842.
Litigation
From time to time, J2 Global and its affiliates are involved in litigation and other legal disputes or regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of business.
Any claims or regulatory actions against J2 Global and its affiliates, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming and costly, and could divert significant operational resources.
The outcomes of such matters are subject to inherent uncertainties, carrying the potential for unfavorable rulings that could include monetary damages and injunctive relief.
On February 17, 2011, Emmanuel Pantelakis (“Pantelakis”) filed suit against a J2 Global affiliate in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (No.
11-50673), alleging that the J2 Global affiliate breached a contract relating to Pantelakis’s use of the Campaigner service.
The J2 Global affiliate filed a responsive pleading on March 23, 2011 and responses to undertakings on July 16, 2012.
On November 6, 2012, Pantelakis filed a second amended statement of claim, reframing his lawsuit as a negligence action.
The J2 Global affiliate filed an amended statement of defense on April 8, 2013.
Discovery has closed, with the exception of one issue.
There is an anticipated trial date of February 2021.
J2 Global does not believe, based on current knowledge, that the foregoing legal proceedings or claims, after giving effect to existing accrued liabilities, are likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
However, depending on the amount and timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could have a material effect on J2 Global’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period.
The Company has not accrued for any material loss contingencies relating to these legal proceedings because materially unfavorable outcomes are not considered probable by management.
It is the Company’s policy to expense as incurred legal fees related to various litigations.
Credit Agreement
On January 7, 2019, J2 Cloud Services, LLC entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with certain lenders from time to time party thereto (collectively, the “Lenders”) and MUFG Union Bank, N.A., as sole lead arranger and as administrative agent for the Lenders (the “Agent”).
Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the Lenders have provided J2 Cloud Services with a credit facility of $100.0 million (the “Credit Facility”) with an option to request an increase of up to $50.0 million.
On July 1, 2019, the Company increased its Credit Facility to $150.0 million.
On August 16, 2019, the Company and MUFG Union Bank entered into the Second Amendment with respect to the Credit Agreement.
Among other things, the Second Amendment increased the aggregate amount available under the Credit Facility from $150.0 million to $200.0 million through December 31, 2020.
The proceeds of the Credit Facility are intended to be used for working capital and general corporate purposes of J2 Cloud and its subsidiaries, including to finance certain permitted acquisitions and capital expenditures in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement.
As of September 30, 2019, $128.0 million was outstanding under the Credit Facility.
The final maturity of the Credit Facility will occur on January 7, 2024.
J2 Cloud is permitted to make voluntary prepayments of the Credit Facility at any time without payment of a premium or penalty.
The obligations under the Credit Facility and certain cash management are and will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by certain of J2 Cloud’s existing and subsequently acquired or organized direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries pursuant to a guarantee agreement and secured by a lien on the equity interests of certain of J2 Cloud’s foreign subsidiaries.
The Company has capitalized the total of $0.4 million in debt issuance costs, which are being amortized to interest expense over the life of the Credit Facility.
As of September 30, 2019, these debt issuance costs, net of amortization, were $0.4 million.
The related interest expense was $1.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and $2.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Non-Income Related Taxes
The Company does not collect and remit sales and use, telecommunication, or similar taxes and fees in certain jurisdictions where the Company believes such taxes are not applicable or legally required.
Several states and other taxing jurisdictions have presented or threatened the Company with assessments, alleging that the Company is required to collect and remit such taxes there.
The Company is currently under audit or is subject to audit for indirect taxes in various states, municipalities and foreign jurisdictions.
The Company has a $21.6 million reserve established for these matters.
It is reasonably possible that additional liabilities could be incurred resulting in additional expense, which could have a material impact our financial results.
The Company’s tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of the Company’s annual effective tax rate adjusted for discrete interim period tax impacts.
Each quarter the Company updates its estimated annual effective tax rate and, if the estimate changes, makes a cumulative adjustment.
The Company’s effective tax rate was 17.0% and 22.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 15.7% and 22.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Income before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $34.6 million and $4.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $78.9 million and $100.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had $50.8 million and $59.6 million, respectively, in liabilities for uncertain income tax positions.
Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized in income tax expense on the Company’s consolidated statement of income.
Cash paid for income taxes net of refunds received was $38.2 million and $21.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Certain taxes are prepaid during the year and, where appropriate, included within prepaid expenses and other current assets on the consolidated balance sheet.
The Company’s prepaid taxes were $3.6 million and zero at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The Company is in various stages of audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for its 2012 through 2016 tax years.
J2 Global is under income tax audit by the California Franchise Tax Board (the “FTB”) for its tax years 2012 and 2013.
The FTB, however, has suspended its audit for 2012 and 2013 pending the outcome of the IRS audit for such tax years.
In August 2018, the FTB notified the Company that it will commence an audit of tax years 2015 and 2016.
In June 2019, the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance (“NYS”) notified the Company that it will commence an audit for tax year 2015.
In September 2019, the Company was notified by the French Tax Authorities that the audit of the 2011 to 2016 tax years has been concluded with no adjustments.
It is reasonably possible that these audits may conclude in the next 12 months and that the uncertain tax positions the Company has recorded in relation to these tax years may change compared to the liabilities recorded for these periods.
If the recorded uncertain tax positions are inadequate to cover the associated tax liabilities, the Company would be required to record additional tax expense in the relevant period, which could be material.
If the recorded uncertain tax positions are adequate to cover the associated tax liabilities, the Company would be required to record any excess as a reduction in tax expense in the relevant period, which could be material.
However, it is not currently possible to estimate the amount, if any, of such change.
Common Stock Repurchase Program
In February 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 20, 2020.
In November 2018 and May 2019, the Company entered into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans with a broker to facilitate the repurchase program.
600,000 shares were repurchased under the share repurchase program in 2018 at an aggregate cost of $42.5 million and were subsequently retired in March 2019.
During the nine month period ended September 30, 2019, the Company repurchased 197,870 shares under this program at an aggregate cost of $16.0 million, which were subsequently retired.
Cumulatively at September 30, 2019, 2.9 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $117.1 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).
As a result of the purchase of J2 Global common stock through the Company’s share repurchase program, the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program is 1,140,819 shares of J2 Global common stock.
Periodically, participants in J2 Global’s stock plans surrender to the Company shares of J2 Global stock to pay the exercise price or to satisfy tax withholding obligations arising upon the exercise of stock options or the vesting of restricted stock.
During the three month period ended September 30, 2019, the Company purchased 9,053 shares from plan participants for this purpose.
Dividends
Future dividends are subject to Board approval.
Based on the significant number of current investment opportunities within the Company’s portfolio of businesses and the historic returns from prior investments, the Board of Directors suspended dividend payments for the foreseeable future after the June 4, 2019 payment.
13.Stock Options and Employee Stock Purchase Plan
J2 Global’s share-based compensation plans include the 2007 Stock Plan (the “2007 Plan”), 2015 Stock Option Plan (the “2015 Plan”) and 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “Purchase Plan”).
Each plan is described below.
The 2007 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other share-based awards.
4,500,000 shares of J2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2007 Plan purposes.
Options under the 2007 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the fair market value of J2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for incentive stock options and not less than 85% of the fair market value of J2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for non-statutory stock options.
As of September 30, 2019, 128,739 shares underlying options and 1,940 shares of restricted units were outstanding under the 2007 Plan.
The 2007 Plan terminated on February 14, 2017.
The 2015 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance share units and other share-based awards and is intended as a successor plan to the 2007 Plan since no further grants will be made under the 2007 Plan.
4,200,000 shares of J2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2015 Plan purposes.
Options under the 2015 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the higher of the par value or 100% of the fair market value of J2 Global’s common stock subject to the option on the date the option is granted.
As of September 30, 2019, 423,000 shares underlying options and 22,689 shares of restricted stock units were outstanding under the 2015 Plan.
All stock option grants are approved by “outside directors” within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m).
Stock Options
The total intrinsic values of options exercised during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $8.0 million and $3.6 million, respectively.
The Company recognized $0.2 million and $0.2 million of compensation expense related to stock options for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $0.7 million and $0.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, unrecognized stock compensation related to non-vested stock options granted under each of the share-based compensation plans approximated $7.1 million and $6.9 million, respectively.
Unrecognized stock compensation expense related to non-vested stock options granted under these plans is expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted-average period of 6.2 years (i.e., the remaining requisite service period).
Fair Value Disclosure
J2 Global uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the fair value of each option grant.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company’s common stock.
The Company estimates the expected term based upon the historical exercise behavior of our employees.
The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a term equal to the expected term of the option assumed at the date of grant.
The Company uses an annualized dividend yield based upon the per share dividends declared by its Board of Directors.
Estimated forfeiture rates were 13.21% and 11.71% as of September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
 Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
J2 Global has awarded restricted stock and restricted stock units to its Board of Directors and senior staff pursuant to certain share-based compensation plans.
Compensation expense resulting from restricted stock and restricted unit grants is measured at fair value on the date of grant and is recognized as share-based compensation expense over the applicable vesting period.
Vesting periods are approximately one year for awards to members of the Company’s Board of Directors, five years for senior staff (excluding market-based awards discussed below) and eight years for the Chief Executive Officer.
Restricted Stock - Awards with Market Conditions
J2 Global has awarded certain key employees market-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the 2015 Plan.
The market-based awards have vesting conditions that are based on specified stock price targets of the Company’s common stock.
Market conditions were factored into the grant date fair value using a Monte Carlo valuation model, which utilized multiple input variables to determine the probability of the Company achieving the specified stock price targets with a 20-day and 30-day lookback (trading days).
Stock-based compensation expense related to an award with a market condition will be recognized over the requisite service period using the graded-vesting method regardless of whether the market condition is satisfied, provided that the requisite service period has been completed.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company awarded 74,051 and 473,501 market-based restricted stock awards, respectively.
The per share weighted average grant-date fair values of the market-based restricted stock awards granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $69.99 and $52.95, respectively.
The Company recognized $5.9 million and $7.5 million of compensation expense related to restricted stock and restricted stock units for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $16.7 million and $20.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had unrecognized share-based compensation cost of approximately $51.9 million and $61.6 million, respectively, associated with these awards.
This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 5.2 years for awards and 3.3 years for units.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The Purchase Plan provides for the issuance of a maximum of two million shares of the Company’s common stock.
Under the Purchase Plan, eligible employees can have up to 15% of their earnings withheld, up to certain maximums, to be used to purchase shares of J2 Global common stock at certain plan-defined dates.
The price of the J2 Global common stock purchased under the Purchase Plan for the offering periods is equal to 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of a share of common stock of the Company on the beginning or the end of the offering period.
J2 Global determined that a plan provision exists which allows for the more favorable of two exercise prices, commonly referred to as a “look-back” feature.
The purchase price discount and the look-back feature cause the Purchase Plan to be compensatory and the Company to recognize compensation expense.
The compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
The Company used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the estimated fair value of the purchase right issued under the ESPP.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company’s common stock.
The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a term equal to the expected term of the option assumed at the date of grant.
The Company uses an annualized dividend yield based upon the per share dividends declared by its Board of Directors.
Estimated forfeiture rates were 0.78% and 0.10% as of September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, 32,154 and 1,781 shares were purchased under the Purchase Plan, respectively.
Cash received upon the issuance of J2 Global common stock under the Purchase Plan was $2.0 million and $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of September 30, 2019, 1,557,827 shares were available under the Purchase Plan for future issuance.
The Company recognized $0.3 million and $0.3 million of compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $1.0 million and $0.4 million of compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Represents the incremental shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes due June 15, 2029 by applying the treasury stock method when the average stock price exceeds the conversion price of the Convertible Notes (see Note 8 - Long Term Debt).
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were zero options outstanding, respectively, which were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common stock.
Segment Information
The Company’s Cloud Services business is driven primarily by subscription revenues that are relatively higher margin, stable and predictable from quarter to quarter with some seasonal weakness in the fourth quarter.
The Cloud Services business also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period to period.
The Company’s Digital Media business is driven primarily by advertising and subscription revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter.
The accounting policies of the businesses are the same as those described in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation.
The Company evaluates performance based on revenue, gross margin and profit or loss from operations before income taxes, not including nonrecurring gains and losses and foreign exchange gains and losses.
The CODM does not use Balance Sheet and Cash Flow information in connection with operating and investment decisions other than as presented for Cloud Services and Digital Media.
Accordingly, the following segment information is presented for Cloud Services and Digital Media.
J2 Global maintains operations in the U.S., Canada, Ireland, Japan and other countries.
Geographic information about the U.S. and all other countries for the reporting periods is presented below.
Such information attributes revenues based on jurisdictions where revenues are reported (in thousands).
16.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
None.
Item 1.Legal Proceedings
See Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1) for information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors
In addition to the other information set forth in this report, before deciding to invest in J2 Global or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (the “10-K Risk Factors”) as well as in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or to be filed by us in 2019.
If any of these risks occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.
The 10-K Risk Factors are not the only ones we face.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations.
There have been no material changes from the 10-K Risk Factors.
