fls.txt



item1.txt
Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services.
These condensed consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Intuit and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
See Note 10, “Segment Information,” for more information.
See Note 4, “Business Combinations,” for more information.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017.
Our Consumer offerings have significant seasonal patterns and revenue from those income tax preparation products and services is heavily concentrated in our third fiscal quarter ending April 30.
Dilutive potential common shares consist of the shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options and upon the vesting of restricted stock units (RSUs) under the treasury stock method.
The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years, which means that it will be effective for us in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2020.
Early adoption is permitted.
Financial Instruments - In June 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326).” This new standard requires the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts.
The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years, which means that it will be effective for us in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2020.
Earlier adoption is permitted in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2019.
The following table summarizes our cash equivalents and available-for-sale debt securities by balance sheet classification and level in the fair value hierarchy at the dates indicated.
In all periods presented, cash equivalents consist primarily of time deposits, investments consist of available-for-sale investment-grade debt securities, and funds held for customers consist of cash and cash equivalents and investment grade available-for-sale debt securities.
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and funds held for customers by balance sheet classification at the dates indicated.


item2.txt
Customers for our connected services offerings have generally grown faster than those for our traditional desktop software offerings, reflecting our strategic focus on connected services over the past few years.
This charge was partially offset by tax benefits related to share-based compensation expense.
Operating loss decreased 5% for the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017.
We recorded a net loss of $38 million for the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to a net loss of $17 million for the same period of fiscal 2017.
The net loss for the first six months of fiscal 2018 includes a $39 million tax charge related to the re-measurement of our net deferred tax asset balance as a result of the enactment of the Tax Act.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We face intense competitive pressures that may harm our operating results.
We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past.
If we misjudge customer needs in the future, our new products and services may not succeed and our revenues and earnings may be harmed.
Because these new initiatives are inherently risky, they may not be successful and may harm our financial condition and operating results.
We rely on third-party intellectual property in our products and services.
We frequently encounter unauthorized copies of our software being sold through online marketplaces.
Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.
Our acquisition and divestiture activities may disrupt our ongoing business, may involve increased expenses and may present risks not contemplated at the time of the transactions.


