fls.txt



item1.txt
Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services.
ProSeries and Lacerte are our leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants.
These condensed consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Intuit and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April.
This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.
Our desktop offerings consist of our QuickBooks Desktop products, which include both packaged software products and software subscriptions, our consumer and professional tax desktop products, which include TurboTax, Lacerte and ProSeries, our desktop payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our desktop offerings.
Our QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions include a term software license, version protection, enhancements, support and various connected services.
Our consumer and professional tax desktop products include an on-premise tax software license, related tax form updates, electronic filing service and connected services.
As a result, revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription term as services are provided.
Our online offerings include our TurboTax Online products, ProConnect Tax Online products, QuickBooks Online products, online payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our online offerings.
The functionality of the software licenses included in our consumer and professional tax and payroll desktop offerings is dependent on the related enhancements and updates included in these offerings.
In many cases SSPs for distinct performance obligations are based on directly observable pricing.
Discounts and incentive rebates are estimated based on distributors' and retailers' performance against the terms and conditions of the rebate programs.
Our performance obligations are generally satisfied within 12 months of the initial contract date.
Dilutive potential common shares consist of the shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options and upon the vesting of restricted stock units (RSUs) under the treasury stock method.
Dividend rights are accumulated and paid when the underlying RSUs vest.


item2.txt
We adopted the new accounting standards for revenue recognition effective August 1, 2018.
Beginning with the first quarter of our fiscal 2019, our financial results reflect the adoption of the standards with the prior periods restated accordingly.
International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented.
The majority of revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups.
The current agreement is scheduled to expire in October 2021.
Online offerings, desktop software and mobile technology industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions.
We must continue to innovate and develop new products and features to meet changing customer needs and attract and retain talented software developers.
We need to continue to develop our skills, tools and capabilities to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies, which require us to devote significant resources.
We also provide additional customer benefits by utilizing customer data available to us through our existing offerings.
We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past.
If we misjudge customer needs in the future, our new products and services may not succeed and our revenues and earnings may be harmed.


