fls.txt



item1.txt
We have included all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, which we considered necessary for a fair presentation of our financial results for the interim periods presented.
See Note 10, “Segment Information,” for more information.
We have included the results of operations for these companies in our consolidated results of operations from the dates of acquisition.
See Note 4, “Business Combinations,” for more information.
Results for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 do not necessarily indicate the results we expect for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2018 or any other future period.
We compute basic net income or loss per share using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
All of the RSUs we grant have dividend rights.
Early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2017-04 on our consolidated financial statements.
Earlier adoption is permitted in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2019.
We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.
Early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2016-02 on our consolidated financial statements.
This new standard supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The new standard is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, which means that it is effective for us beginning August 1, 2018.


item2.txt
Customers for our connected services offerings have generally grown faster than those for our traditional desktop software offerings, reflecting our strategic focus on connected services over the past few years.
Operating income increased 12% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2017.
Diluted net income per share increased 24% to $4.59, in line with the increase in net income.
Operating income for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased 12% compared with the same period of fiscal 2017.
The net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 includes a $44 million tax charge primarily related to the re-measurement of our net deferred tax asset balance as a result of the enactment of the Tax Act.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We face intense competitive pressures that may harm our operating results.
Online offerings, desktop software and mobile technology industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions.
In some cases, we may expend a significant amount of resources and management attention on offerings that do not ultimately succeed in their markets.
We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past.
If we misjudge customer needs in the future, our new products and services may not succeed and our revenues and earnings may be harmed.
Because these new initiatives are inherently risky, they may not be successful and may harm our financial condition and operating results.
We rely on third-party intellectual property in our products and services.
Policing unauthorized use and copying of our products is difficult, expensive, and time consuming.


