fls.txt



item1.txt
We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us serve small business customers.
Customer fund deposits consist of amounts we owe on behalf of our customers.
Our leases are primarily operating leases for office facilities.
We do not have significant finance leases.
We maintain an allowance for loan losses to reserve for potentially uncollectible notes receivable.
We do not expect that any other recently issued accounting pronouncements will have a significant effect on our financial statements.
•Level 1 uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 uses inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable through correlation with market data.
Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure that we record appropriate fair values for our Level 2 investments.
We periodically review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns.
We do not intend to sell these investments.
In addition, it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell them before recovery at par, which may be at maturity.
We lease office facilities under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements.
We do not have significant finance leases.
We sublease certain office facilities to third parties.


item2.txt
At Intuit, our strategy starts with customer obsession.
International total net revenue was approximately 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented.
The majority of revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year.
Because of the seasonality of our Consumer revenue, we do not believe that revenue or operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 is indicative of trends for the current fiscal year.
We will not have substantially complete results for the 2019 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2020.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups.
These competitive factors may diminish our revenue and profitability, and harm our ability to acquire and retain customers.
The current agreement is scheduled to expire in October 2021.
We must continue to innovate and develop new products and features to meet changing customer needs and attract and retain talented software developers.
We need to continue to develop our skills, tools and capabilities to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies, which requires us to devote significant resources.
We also provide additional customer benefits by utilizing customer data available to us through our existing offerings.
We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past.
If we misjudge customer needs in the future, our new products and services may not succeed and our revenues and earnings may be harmed.
We have also invested, and in the future, expect to invest in new business models, geographies, strategies and initiatives.


