fls.txt



item1.txt
We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers.
We have included the results of operations for these companies in our consolidated statements of operations from the dates of acquisition.
See the discussion of changes to our revenue recognition policy for the adoption of Topic 606, the new revenue recognition standard, below.
We have determined that the enhancements included in our QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions are immaterial within the context of the contract.
In instances where we do not have reporting from our partners, we estimate revenue based on information available to us at the time.
We record revenue net of sales tax obligations.
Revenue for electronic payment processing services that we provide to merchants is recorded net of interchange fees charged by credit card associations.
In many cases SSPs for distinct performance obligations are based on directly observable pricing.
We maintain an allowance for loan losses to reserve for potentially uncollectible notes receivable.
No customer accounted for 10% or more of gross accounts receivable at July 31, 2018.
We have determined that the enhancements included in our QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions are immaterial within the context of the contract.
Previously, we recognized all revenue related to tax desktop solutions as services were provided.
Adoption of Topic 606 had no impact to cash from or used in operating, financing, or investing on our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Early adoption is permitted.
Early adoption is permitted.
This standard is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective approach.


item2.txt
We adopted the new accounting standards for revenue recognition effective August 1, 2018.
Beginning with the first quarter of our fiscal 2019, our financial results reflect the adoption of the standards with the prior periods restated accordingly.
Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $39 million or 20% compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2018.
Operating income for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased $64 million or 40% compared with the same period of fiscal 2018.
During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $49 million as compared to $33 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups.
The current agreement is scheduled to expire in October 2021.
Online offerings, desktop software and mobile technology industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions.
We must continue to innovate and develop new products and features to meet changing customer needs and attract and retain talented software developers.
We need to continue to develop our skills, tools and capabilities to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies, which require us to devote significant resources.
We also provide additional customer benefits by utilizing customer data available to us through our existing offerings.
We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past.
If we misjudge customer needs in the future, our new products and services may not succeed and our revenues and earnings may be harmed.


