fls.txt



item1.txt
Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services.
Our flagship brands, QuickBooks and TurboTax, help customers run their small businesses, pay employees and send invoices, separate business and personal expenses, track their money, and file income taxes.
These condensed consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Intuit and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018.
This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.
Our desktop offerings consist of our QuickBooks Desktop products, which include both packaged software products and software subscriptions, our consumer and professional tax desktop products, which include TurboTax, Lacerte and ProSeries, our desktop payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our desktop offerings.
Our QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions include a term software license, version protection, enhancements, support and various connected services.
Our consumer and professional tax desktop products include an on-premise tax software license, related tax form updates, electronic filing service and connected services.
Our online offerings include our TurboTax Online products, ProConnect Tax Online products, QuickBooks Online products, online payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our online offerings.
In determining how revenue should be recognized, a five-step process is used, which requires judgment and estimates.
The functionality of the software licenses included in our consumer and professional tax and payroll desktop offerings is dependent on the related enhancements and updates included in these offerings.
Dilutive potential common shares consist of the shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options and upon the vesting of restricted stock units (RSUs) under the treasury stock method.
As of April 30, 2019 and July 31, 2018, the notes receivable balance was $96 million and $55 million, respectively, and the allowance for loan losses were not significant.
The term loans are not secured and are recorded at amortized cost, net of allowances for loan losses.
The impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-16 on our consolidated financial statements is not material.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers - In May 2014 the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” This standard superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.


item2.txt
We adopted the new accounting standards for revenue recognition effective August 1, 2018.
Beginning with the first quarter of our fiscal 2019, our financial results reflect the adoption of the standards with the prior periods restated accordingly.
Operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $183 million or 11% compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2018.
See “Operating Expenses” later in this Item 2 for more information.
Operating income for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased $247 million or 14% compared with the same period of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups.
The current agreement is scheduled to expire in October 2021.
Online offerings, desktop software and mobile technology industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions.
We must continue to innovate and develop new products and features to meet changing customer needs and attract and retain talented software developers.
We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past.
If we misjudge customer needs in the future, our new products and services may not succeed and our revenues and earnings may be harmed.
We have also invested, and in the future, expect to invest in new business models, geographies, strategies and initiatives.
Because these new initiatives are inherently risky, they may not be successful and may harm our financial condition and operating results.


