fls.txt



item1.txt
Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services.
We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers.
Our flagship brands, QuickBooks and TurboTax, help customers run their small businesses, pay employees and send invoices, separate business and personal expenses, track their money, and file income taxes.
Results for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 do not necessarily indicate the results we expect for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2019 or any other future period.
Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April.
We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018.
We derive revenue from the sale of packaged software products, software subscriptions, hosted services, payroll services, merchant payment processing services, financial supplies and hardware.
We enter into contracts with customers that include promises to transfer various products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized when the promised goods or services are transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration allocated to the respective performance obligation.
Our desktop offerings consist of our QuickBooks Desktop products, which include both packaged software products and software subscriptions, our consumer and professional tax desktop products, which include TurboTax, Lacerte and ProSeries, our desktop payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our desktop offerings.
Our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products include a perpetual software license as well as enhancements and connected services.
We recognize revenue for our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products at the time the software license is delivered.
We have determined that the enhancements and connected services included in our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products are immaterial within the context of the contract.
We recognize revenue for the software license and version protection at the time they are delivered and recognize revenue for support and connected services over the subscription term as the services are provided.
Our consumer and professional tax desktop products include an on-premise tax software license, related tax form updates, electronic filing service and connected services.
We recognize revenue for our electronic filings service and connected services as those services are provided.


item2.txt
Beginning with the first quarter of our fiscal 2019, our financial results reflect the adoption of the standards with the prior periods restated accordingly.
See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.
We ended the first nine months of fiscal 2019 with cash, cash equivalents and investments totaling $3.3 billion.


item3.txt
See Note 2 and Note 3 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for a summary of the amortized cost and fair value of our investments by type of issue.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing and other resources, have greater name recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to market with new products and services.
In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers.
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models and monetization strategies, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses.
In order to compete, we have also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract customers as effectively as competitors with different business models.
In addition, we may not be able to monetize our free offerings if other providers of free offerings provide features that we do not offer and customers who have formerly paid for Intuit’s products and services may elect to use our competitors’ free offerings instead.
Our consumer tax business also faces significant competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities proposing revenue raising strategies that involve developing and providing government tax software or other government return preparation systems at public expense.
If the Free File Program were to be terminated and the IRS were to enter the software development and return preparation space, the federal government would become a publicly funded direct competitor of the U.S. tax services industry and of Intuit.
Online offerings, desktop software and mobile technology industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions.


