fls.txt



item1.txt
Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services.
We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us serve small business customers.
Our flagship brands, QuickBooks, TurboTax and Mint, help customers run their small businesses, pay employees and send invoices, separate business and personal expenses, track their money, and file income taxes.
Effective August 1, 2019, we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" (ASC 842) using the modified retrospective approach, under which financial results reported in prior periods were not restated.
Funds held for customers represent cash held on behalf of our customers that is invested in cash and cash equivalents and investment-grade available-for-sale debt securities.
The purchases, sales and maturities of the investments for our funds held for customers are presented in investing activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
We present the net change in customer fund deposits in financing activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2019.
Results for the three months ended October 31, 2019 do not necessarily indicate the results we expect for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2020 or any other future period.
Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April.
We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2019.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use (ROU) assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Our leases generally do not have a readily determinable implicit rate, therefore we use our incremental borrowing rate at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
We measure ROU assets based on the corresponding lease liabilities adjusted for any initial direct costs and prepaid lease payments made to the lessor before or at the commencement date, net of lease incentives.
We use estimates in determining the collectibility of accounts receivable and notes receivable, the appropriate levels of various accruals including accruals for litigation contingencies, the discount rate used to calculate lease liabilities, the amount of our worldwide tax provision, and the realizability of deferred tax assets.
In addition, we use assumptions to estimate the fair value of reporting units and share-based compensation.


item2.txt
See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
The result is a shift from traditional services and point solutions to interconnected capabilities that work on platforms and increasingly rely on A.I. As part of our strategy, we also develop relationships with key partners that enable us to scale our service to consumers, small businesses and the self-employed globally, including financial institutions, enterprise platforms, educational institutions and accountants.
This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.
As we offer more online services, the ongoing operation and availability of our platforms and systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important.
The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; operating income growth for the company as a whole; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing and other resources, have greater name recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to market with new products and services.
In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers.
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses.
In order to compete, we have also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract customers as effectively as competitors with different business models.
In addition, other providers of free offerings may provide features that we do not offer and customers who have formerly paid for Intuit’s products and services may elect to use our competitors’ free offerings instead.
Our consumer tax business also faces significant potential competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities proposing revenue raising strategies that involve developing and providing government tax software or other government return preparation systems at public expense.
If the Free File Program were to be terminated and the IRS were to enter the software development and return preparation space, the federal government would become a publicly funded direct competitor of the U.S. tax services industry and of Intuit.
We must continue to innovate and develop new products and features to meet changing customer needs and attract and retain talented software developers.
Our consumer and professional tax businesses depend significantly on revenue from customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services.


