Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services.
We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers.
Our flagship brands, QuickBooks and TurboTax, help customers run their small businesses, pay employees and send invoices, separate business and personal expenses, track their money, and file income taxes.
Results for the six months ended January 31, 2019 do not necessarily indicate the results we expect for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2019 or any other future period.
Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April.
We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018.
We derive revenue from the sale of packaged software products, software subscriptions, hosted services, payroll services, merchant payment processing services, financial supplies and hardware.
We enter into contracts with customers that include promises to transfer various products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized when the promised goods or services are transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration allocated to the respective performance obligation.
Our desktop offerings consist of our QuickBooks Desktop products, which include both packaged software products and software subscriptions, our consumer and professional tax desktop products, which include TurboTax, Lacerte and ProSeries, our desktop payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our desktop offerings.Beginning with the first quarter of our fiscal 2019, our financial results reflect the adoption of the standards with the prior periods restated accordingly.
See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing and other resources, have greater name recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to market with new products and services.
In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers.
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models and monetization strategies, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses.
In order to compete, we have also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract customers as effectively as competitors with different business models.
In addition, we may not be able to monetize our free offerings if other providers of free offerings provide features that we do not offer and customers who have formerly paid for Intuit’s products and services may elect to use our competitors’ free offerings instead.