fls.txt



item1.txt
Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services.
We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers.
Our flagship brands, QuickBooks and TurboTax, help customers run their small businesses, pay employees and bills, separate business and personal expenses, track their money, and file income taxes.
Results for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 do not necessarily indicate the results we expect for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2018 or any other future period.
Our Consumer offerings have significant seasonal patterns and revenue from those income tax preparation products and services is heavily concentrated in our third fiscal quarter ending April 30.
We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017.
For example, we use estimates in determining the appropriate levels of reserves for product returns, promotional discounts and rebates, the collectibility of accounts receivable, the appropriate levels of various accruals including accruals for litigation contingencies, the amount of our worldwide tax provision, and the realizability of deferred tax assets.
In addition, we use assumptions to estimate the fair value of reporting units and share-based compensation.
We include stock options with combined exercise prices and unrecognized compensation expense that are less than the average market price for our common stock, and RSUs with unrecognized compensation expense that is less than the average market price for our common stock, in the calculation of diluted net income per share.
We exclude stock options with combined exercise prices and unrecognized compensation expense that are greater than the average market price for our common stock, and RSUs with unrecognized compensation expense that is greater than the average market price for our common stock, from the calculation of diluted net income per share because their effect is anti-dilutive.
Under the treasury stock method, the amount that must be paid to exercise stock options and the amount of compensation expense for future service that we have not yet recognized for stock options and RSUs are assumed to be used to repurchase shares.
No customer accounted for 10% or more of total net revenue in the three or nine months ended April 30, 2018 or April 30, 2017.
Financial Instruments - In June 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326).” This new standard requires the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts.
Under the new standard, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The most significant impact of the standard relates to the timing and amount of revenue recognized for our QuickBooks Desktop solutions and our consumer and professional tax desktop solutions.


item2.txt
As a result, during each of the last three fiscal years the total consolidated revenue for our third quarter ended April 30 has represented nearly half of our annual total consolidated revenue for those years.
As we continue transitioning to offer more connected services, the ongoing operation and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important.
Connected services (total service and other revenue) generated $3.8 billion or 73% of our total revenue in fiscal 2017.
We ended the first nine months of fiscal 2018 with cash, cash equivalents and investments totaling $1.9 billion.
We believe that there were no significant changes in those critical accounting policies and estimates during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
We do not hold derivative financial instruments or European sovereign debt in our portfolio of investments.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing and other resources, have greater name recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to market with new products and services.
In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers.
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models and monetization strategies, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses.
In order to compete, we have also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract customers as effectively as competitors with different business models.
In addition, we may not be able to monetize our free offerings if other providers of free offerings provide features that we do not offer and customers who have formerly paid for Intuit’s products and services may elect to use our competitors’ free offerings instead.
Our consumer tax business also faces significant competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities proposing revenue strategies that involve developing and providing government tax software or other government return preparation systems at public expense.
If the Free File Program were to be terminated and the IRS were to enter the software development and return preparation space, the federal government would become a direct competitor of the U.S. tax services industry and of Intuit, which could potentially have material and adverse revenue implications.
Online offerings, desktop software and mobile technology industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions.


