Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, and should be read in conjunction with the disclosures we make concerning risks and other factors that may affect our business and operating results. You should read this information in conjunction with the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and Part II, Item 8, contained in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018. See also “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately prior to Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.



Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters. As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” and the “Company” refer to Western Digital Corporation and its subsidiaries.



Our Company





Key Developments



Flash Ventures



The flash industry is characterized by cyclicality as it responds to variations in customers’ demand for products and manages production capacity to meet that demand. The favorable demand environment for flash-based products during the last several quarters has begun to normalize as technology conversions are maturing and manufacturing yields are improving, thus increasing flash supply relative to demand. As a result, average selling price per gigabyte of flash-based products has declined.



Through our strategic partnership with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) referred to as “Flash Ventures”, we and TMC operate flash-based memory wafer manufacturing facilities in Yokkaichi, Japan. We are obligated to purchase half of Flash Ventures’ flash-based memory wafer supply or pay for half of Flash Ventures’ fixed costs regardless of the output we choose to purchase. We are also obligated to fund 49.9% to 50% of Flash Ventures’ capital investments to the extent that Flash Ventures’ operating cash flow is insufficient to fund these investments.



Flash Ventures has historically operated near 100% of its manufacturing capacity. As a result of the reduced demand for flash-based products, we have temporarily reduced our utilization of our share of Flash Ventures’ manufacturing capacity to an abnormally low level to more closely align our flash-based wafer supply with the projected demand. We do not expect this action to result in any incremental cash payments; however, as a result of this temporary reduction to abnormally low production levels, we incurred costs of $49 million associated with the reduction in utilization, which was recorded as a charge to cost of revenue in the three months ended December 28, 2018. Including the $49 million recorded through December 28, 2018, we expect total underutilization charges to be recorded in cost of revenue in the range of $250 million to $300 million with the substantial majority expected to be recognized by the end of the fiscal year. We may adjust our plans based on market conditions, which could impact the timing and amount of any charges.



Cost and Expense Reduction Actions



We are taking actions to better align our cost and expense structure to near-term business conditions, including accelerating the closure of our HDD manufacturing facility in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, rationalizing other HDD manufacturing costs and other measures to reduce our cost of revenue and operating expenses.



Results of Operations



Second Quarter and First Half Overview



















Net Revenue and Gross Margin



Net Revenue. The decrease in net revenue in the three months ended December 28, 2018 from the comparable period of the prior year was primarily driven by lower average selling prices per gigabyte for flash-based products and lower sales of client compute HDD, capacity enterprise HDD and performance enterprise HDD products. Client Devices revenue decreased 16.4% year over year, primarily driven by a reduction in client compute HDD and flash-based mobile products, partially offset by higher revenue in client SSD. Our revenue for Data Center Devices and Solutions decreased 25.1% year over year, primarily driven by lower sales of enterprise SSD, capacity enterprise HDD and performance enterprise HDD products. Client Solutions revenue decreased 24.7% year over year, primarily driven by lower sales of retail HDD and lower average selling prices per gigabyte of flash-based products. 



The decrease in net revenue for the six months ended December 28, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, is primarily due to lower average selling prices per gigabyte for flash-based products and lower sales of client compute HDD, enterprise SSD and performance enterprise HDD products, partially offset by higher sales of capacity enterprise HDD, flash-based mobile products and client SSD. Client Devices revenue for the six months ended December 28, 2018 decreased 8.6% year over year, primarily driven by lower sales of client compute HDD products, partially offset by stronger sales in the first quarter of flash-based mobile products and client SSD. Our revenue for Data Center Devices and Solutions for the six months ended December 28, 2018 decreased 10.1% year over year, driven primarily by lower sales of our enterprise SSDs and performance enterprise HDDs, partially offset by higher sales of capacity enterprise HDDs. Client Solutions revenue for the six months ended December 28, 2018 decreased 21.5% year over year, primarily driven by lower sales of retail HDD and lower average selling prices per gigabyte of flash-based products.



Our top 10 customers accounted for 47% of our net revenue for the three and six months ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and 42% and 41% of our net revenue for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, respectively. For the three and six months ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue.



Changes in the net revenue by geography generally reflect normal fluctuations in market demand and competitive dynamics. 



Consistent with standard industry practice, we have sales incentive and marketing programs that provide customers with price protection and other incentives or reimbursements that are recorded as a reduction to gross revenue. For the three and six months ended December 28, 2018, these programs represented 16% and 14% of gross revenues, respectively. For the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, these programs represented 12% and 13% of gross revenues, respectively. The amounts attributed to our sales incentive and marketing programs generally vary according to several factors including industry conditions, list pricing strategies, seasonal demand, competitor actions, channel mix and overall availability of products. Changes in future customer demand and market conditions may require us to adjust our incentive programs as a percentage of gross revenue.



Gross Profit and Gross Margin. The decreases in gross profit for the three and six months ended December 28, 2018 from the comparable periods in the prior year were primarily due to the lower average selling prices per gigabyte for flash-based products and the flash manufacturing underutilization charge recorded in the three months ended December 28, 2018. Gross profit and gross margin include amortization expense on acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation, a flash manufacturing underutilization charge, and charges related to the implementation of cost-saving initiatives and other charges, which aggregated $283 million, or 6.7%, of revenue, compared to $293 million, or 5.5%, of revenue, for the three months ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017, respectively, and $530 million, or 5.7%, of revenue, compared to $572 million, or 5.4%, of revenue, for the six months ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017, respectively. Including the $49 million recognized through December 28, 2018, we expect gross margins to be negatively impacted by flash manufacturing underutilization charges to be recorded in cost of revenue in the range of $250 million to $300 million with the substantial majority expected to be recognized by the end of the fiscal year.



Operating Expenses







Employee termination, asset impairment and other charges primarily related to actions associated with the realignment of our business. For additional information regarding employee termination, asset impairment and other charges, see Part I, Item 1, Note 13, Employee Termination, Asset Impairment and Other Charges, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Interest and Other Income (Expense) 



The decreases in total interest and other expense, net for both the three and six months ended December 28, 2018 are primarily due to lower interest expense resulting from reductions in the principal amount of debt and lower interest rates as a result of changes to our debt facilities in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2018, partially offset by increases in the LIBOR interest rate.



Income Tax Expense







The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “2017 Act”), enacted on December 22, 2017, includes a broad range of tax reform proposals affecting businesses, including a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign earnings.



When initially accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the 2017 Act, we applied the applicable Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) guidance and made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances and the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax required by the 2017 Act. As we finalized the accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the 2017 Act during the one-year measurement period permitted by applicable SEC guidance, we reflected adjustments to the recorded provisional amounts. As of December 28, 2018, we completed our accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the 2017 Act. Although the U.S. Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) have issued tax guidance on certain provisions of the 2017 Act since the enactment date, we anticipate the issuance of future additional regulatory and interpretive guidance, even though the one-year measurement period has ended. Although we were able to apply a reasonable interpretation of the law along with any available guidance in finalizing our accounting for the tax effects of the 2017 Act, such future additional regulatory or interpretive guidance would constitute new information which may require further refinements to our estimates in future periods.



The primary driver of the difference between the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 28, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 21% is the discrete effect of the finalization of the accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the 2017 Act. For the three months ended December 28, 2018, these discrete effects consist of $230 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax and $134 million related to the decision to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion. For the six months ended December 28, 2018, these discrete effects consist of $178 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax and $144 million related to the decision to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion. For both periods, the remaining difference is attributable primarily to the changes in the relative mix of our U.S. earnings compared to foreign earnings. 



The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% are related to the net charge of $1.66 billion for the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax, offset in part by an income tax benefit related to the re-measurement of deferred taxes as required by the 2017 Act. Excluding these items, the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 would be approximately 4%. The primary drivers for the remaining difference between the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% are the current year generation of tax credits, and tax holidays in Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand that expire at various dates during fiscal years 2018 through 2030 and windfall tax benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards. The windfall tax benefits are a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-09, which requires us to now recognize $5 million and $27 million of windfall tax benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards as a component of our income tax expense for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, respectively. 



Our future effective tax rate is subject to future regulatory developments and changes in the mix of our U.S. earnings compared to foreign earnings. Our total tax expense in future fiscal years may also vary as a result of discrete items such as excess tax benefits or deficiencies.



For additional information regarding income tax expense (benefit), see Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Liquidity and Capital Resources







We believe our cash, cash equivalents and cash generated from operations as well as our available credit facilities will be sufficient to meet our working capital, debt, stock repurchases, dividend and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. Our ability to sustain our working capital position is subject to a number of risks that we discuss in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q. See also “Debt” below for information regarding the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and term loans (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”).



During fiscal 2019, we expect cash used for purchases of property, plant and equipment and net activity in notes receivable and equity investments relating to our Flash Ventures joint venture with Toshiba Memory Corporation to be approximately $1.50 billion to $1.90 billion. The total expected cash to be used could vary depending on the timing and completion of various capital projects and the availability, timing and terms of related financing.



A total of $2.68 billion and $4.15 billion of our cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the U.S. as of December 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, respectively. As of December 28, 2018, we finalized the accounting for the tax effects of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on our indefinite reinvestment assertion. After re-evaluating the existing short- and long-term capital allocation polices, we intend to repatriate all of our foreign undistributed earnings. Accordingly, during the six months ended December 28, 2018, we included a foreign income tax expense of $242 million related to foreign withholding taxes partially offset by foreign tax credits of $82 million. In addition, a state income tax expense of $54 million was recorded, partially offset by a decrease to our valuation allowance of $45 million. Amounts related to federal taxes other than the repatriation tax were not material. Our decision to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion is based on interpretative guidance issued by the IRS to date related to the ordering and the taxation of a repatriation of our foreign undistributed earnings. For additional information regarding our indefinite reinvestment assertion, see Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Operating Activities







Changes in days sales outstanding (“DSOs”) are generally due to the linearity of shipments. Changes in days in inventory (“DIOs”) are generally related to the timing of inventory builds. Changes in days payables outstanding (“DPOs”) are generally related to production volume and the timing of purchases during the period. From time to time, we modify the timing of payments to our vendors. We make modifications primarily to manage our vendor relationships and to manage our cash flows, including our cash balances. Generally, we make the payment term modifications through negotiations with our vendors or by granting to, or receiving from, our vendors’ payment term accommodations.



For the three months ended December 28, 2018, DSO increased by 2 days over the prior year, primarily reflecting the timing of shipments and customer collections. DIO increased by 36 days over the prior year, primarily reflecting increases in hard drive inventory in preparation for the planned plant closures in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and increases in flash inventory. DPO increased by 5 days over the prior year, primarily reflecting routine variations in timing of purchases and payments during the period.



Investing Activities



During the six months ended December 28, 2018, net cash used in investing activities primarily consisted of $500 million of capital expenditures and a net $196 million increase in notes receivable issuances to Flash Ventures to fund its capital expansion. Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended December 29, 2017 primarily consisted of $416 million of capital expenditures, a $509 million net increase in notes receivable issuances to and investments in Flash Ventures and $99 million for acquisitions.



Our cash equivalents are primarily invested in money market funds that invest in U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government agency securities as well as bank certificates of deposit. In addition, we invest directly in U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. and International Government agency securities, certificates of deposit, asset-backed securities and corporate and municipal notes and bonds.



Financing Activities



During the six months ended December 28, 2018, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $575 million for the repayment of our revolving credit facility and debt, $563 million of share repurchases and $292 million to pay dividends on our common stock. Net cash used in financing activities for the six months ended December 29, 2017 primarily consisted of a net $1.15 billion reduction in debt and $295 million to pay dividends on our common stock.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



Other than the commitments related to Flash Ventures, facility lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business and certain indemnification provisions (see “Short and Long-term Liquidity-Contractual Obligations and Commitments” below), we do not have any other material off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any other obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not included in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we do not have an interest in, or relationships with, any special-purpose entities. For additional information regarding our off-balance sheet arrangements, see Part I, Item 1, Note 9, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Parties, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Short and Long-term Liquidity



Contractual Obligations and Commitments 











Debt



We had $10.80 billion of debt outstanding as of December 28, 2018, including $7.37 billion of term loans under our Credit Agreement, $2.30 billion of senior unsecured notes due 2024 and $1.10 billion of convertible notes due 2024.



Under the Credit Agreement, we are required to comply with certain financial covenants with respect to the revolving credit facility and Term Loan A-1, which consist of a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. As of December 28, 2018, we were in compliance with all financial covenants under the Credit Agreement. 



The financial covenants are based upon a trailing twelve-month Adjusted EBITDA as defined in the Credit Agreement. Our Adjusted EBITDA declined significantly during the three months ended December 28, 2018, and such decline may continue. Sustained deterioration in our operating results could cause our trailing twelve-month Adjusted EBITDA to drop below the threshold required for compliance with our leverage ratio, which could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. If an event of default under the Credit Agreement were to occur and if we were not able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders (or if we were not able to obtain such waiver on terms acceptable to us), there could be significant negative consequences for the Company. See Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors—Our high level of debt may have an adverse impact on our liquidity, restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to business opportunities, and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions” for a discussion of risks related to our level of debt, including the consequences of an event of default thereunder. 



Additional information regarding our indebtedness, including information about new borrowings and repayments, increased availability under our revolving credit facility and the principal repayment terms, interest rates, covenants and other key terms of our outstanding indebtedness, is included in Part I, Item 1, Note 7, Debt, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q and Part II, Item 8, Note 6, Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the year ended June 29, 2018.



Flash Ventures



Flash Ventures sells to and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions a portion of its tools and has entered into equipment lease agreements of which we guarantee half or all of the outstanding obligations under each lease agreement. The lease agreements contain customary covenants for Japanese lease facilities. In addition to containing customary events of default related to Flash Ventures that could result in an acceleration of Flash Ventures’ obligations, the lease agreements contain acceleration clauses for certain events of default related to the guarantors, including us. As of December 28, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under these Japanese lease facilities. See Part I, Item 1, Note 9, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Parties, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for information regarding Flash Ventures.



Purchase Obligations



In the normal course of business, we enter into purchase orders with suppliers for the purchase of components used to manufacture our products. These purchase orders generally cover forecasted component supplies needed for production during the next quarter, are recorded as a liability upon receipt of the components, and generally may be changed or canceled at any time prior to shipment of the components. In addition, we have entered into long-term purchase agreements with various component suppliers, containing minimum quantity requirements. However, the dollar amount of the purchases may depend on the specific products ordered, achievement of pre-defined quantity or quality specifications or future price negotiations. The estimated related minimum purchase requirements are included in “Purchase obligations” in the table above. We have also entered into long-term purchase agreements with various component suppliers that carry fixed volumes and pricing which obligate us to make certain future purchases, contingent on certain conditions of performance, quality and technology of the vendor’s components. These arrangements are included under “Purchase obligations” in the table above.



Mandatory Deemed Repatriation Tax







The 2017 Act allows for the mandatory deemed repatriation tax of $1.36 billion to be payable over an 8-year period without interest. The payments are due with 8% of the tax to be paid in each of the first five years, 15% in the 6th year, 20% in the 7th year, and 25% in the 8th year. As of December 28, 2018, total payments of $150 million have been made towards the mandatory deemed repatriation tax of $1.36 billion for a remaining net tax liability owed of $1.21 billion. For additional information regarding our estimate of the total tax liability for the mandatory deemed repatriation tax, see Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Unrecognized Tax Benefits 



As of December 28, 2018, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits (excluding accrued interest and penalties) was approximately $690 million. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as of December 28, 2018 was approximately $116 million. Of these amounts, approximately $688 million could result in potential cash payments. We are not able to provide a reasonable estimate of the timing of future tax payments related to these obligations. For additional information regarding our total tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits, see Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Interest Rate Swap



We have entered into interest rate swap agreements to moderate our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates underlying our variable rate debt. For a description of our current interest rate swaps, see Part I, Item 3, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Foreign Exchange Contracts



We purchase foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. For a description of our current foreign exchange contract commitments, see Part I, Item 3, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Part I, Item 1, Note 6, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Indemnifications



In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements, products or services to be provided by us, environmental compliance or from IP infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers in certain circumstances.



It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements.



Stock Repurchase Program



Our Board of Directors previously authorized $5.00 billion for the repurchase of our common stock. On July 25, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a new $5.00 billion share repurchase program that is effective through July 25, 2023, replacing all prior programs. For the three months ended December 28, 2018, we did not make any stock repurchases. For the six months ended December 28, 2018, we repurchased 0.8 million shares for a total cost of $61 million under the previous authorization and 7.6 million shares for a total cost of $502 million under the new authorization. Therefore, our stock repurchases under all stock repurchase authorizations in effect for the six months ended December 28, 2018 totaled $563 million. The remaining amount available to be repurchased under our current stock repurchase program as of December 28, 2018 was $4.50 billion. Repurchases under the stock repurchase program may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and may be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan. We expect stock repurchases to be funded principally by operating cash flows. 



Cash Dividend



Since the first quarter of 2013, we have issued a quarterly cash dividend. On July 16, 2018, we paid $148 million for a dividend declared in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. During the six months ended December 28, 2018, we declared aggregate cash dividends of $1.00 per share on our outstanding common stock totaling $290 million, of which $146 million was paid on January 14, 2019. We may modify, suspend, or cancel our cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements



For a description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements, including the respective dates of adoption and expected effects on our results of operations and financial condition, see Part I, Item 1, Note 2, Recent Accounting Pronouncements, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q. 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



We have prepared the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”). The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and shareholders’ equity. We have adopted accounting policies and practices that are generally accepted in the industry in which we operate. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements may be material.



See Part I, Item 1, Note 2, Recent Accounting Pronouncements, and Note 3, Revenues, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for a discussion of a recently adopted accounting pronouncement that affects our recognition of revenue. There have been no other material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018. Please refer to Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018 for a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates.



Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities



There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the quarter ended December 28, 2018.



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



There were no repurchases of shares of our common stock during the quarter ended December 28, 2018.



