fls.txt



item1.txt
In connection with the sale of certain assets of our Enterprise Security business as disclosed in Basis of presentation below, effective November 4, 2019, we changed our corporate name from Symantec Corporation to NortonLifeLock Inc. On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement with Broadcom Inc. (Broadcom) under which Broadcom agreed to purchase certain of our Enterprise Security assets and assume certain liabilities for a purchase price of $10.7 billion (the Broadcom sale).
Results of discontinued operations include all revenues and expenses directly derived from the Enterprise Security business, with the exception of revenues and associated costs of our ID Analytics solutions, which were formerly included in the Enterprise Security segment, and general corporate overhead which were previously allocated to the Enterprise Security segment but are not allocated to discontinued operations.
These revenues and expenses are now included in continuing operations.
The assets acquired and liabilities to be sold to Broadcom, as specified in the August 8, 2019 definitive agreement, were classified as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, subject to changes set forth in the agreement.
See Notes 3 and 18 for additional information about the divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America (U.S.) for interim financial information.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended October 4, 2019, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 5, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance on lease accounting which requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and also requires disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard that allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model.
Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021.
The new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, with early adoption permitted.


item2.txt
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
NortonLifeLock Inc. is a global leader in consumer cyber safety.
Our Norton LifeLock branded solutions help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identity, and home networks.
Revenues and associated costs of our ID Analytics solutions, which were formerly included in the Enterprise Security segment, are now included in our remaining reportable segment.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
We may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to such transitions and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs.
Our endpoint security solution has historically relied upon certain threat analytics software engines and other software (the Engine-Related Services) that have been developed and provided by engineering teams that have transferred to Broadcom as part of the Broadcom sale.
The use of proceeds in this manner could impair our future financial growth.
Any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business.
On November 5, 2019, in connection with the strategic decision to divest our enterprise business, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the November 2019 Plan).
Actions under this plan will include the reduction of our workforce by approximately 3,100 employees, as well as asset impairments, contract terminations, facilities closures, and the sale of underutilized facilities.
This initiative could result in disruptions to our operations.
Any cost-cutting measures could also negatively impact our business by delaying the introduction of new products or technologies, interrupting service of additional products, or impacting employee retention.


