fls.txt
In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments.


item1.txt
On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions to Thoma Bravo, LLC’s portfolio company DigiCert Parent Inc. (“DigiCert”).
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the United States of America (“U.S.”) for interim financial information.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted new guidance to simplify accounting for share-based payment transactions.
There have been no other material changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the nine months ended December 29, 2017, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers.
With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
Our Chief Operating Decision Makers (“CODM”), comprised of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), use our operating segment financial information to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources.
Basic income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes.
During the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, the conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive due to a loss from continuing operations.
In addition, transition costs include expenses associated with divestitures of our product lines.
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements (the “Fiscal 2017 Plan”).


item2.txt
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
We operate our business on a global civilian cyber intelligence threat network and track a vast number of threats across the Internet from hundreds of millions of mobile devices, endpoints, and servers across the globe.
This database allows us to reduce the number of false positives and provide faster and better protection for customers through our products.
We are leveraging our capabilities to deliver integrated solutions for customers.
Our strategy is to deliver comprehensive cyber security solutions for both enterprises and consumers.
Our enterprise security strategy is to deliver an Integrated Cyber Defense platform that allows Symantec products to share threat intelligence and improve security outcomes for customers across all control points.
See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture.
Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers.
With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
For more information on our operating segments see Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
•We paid aggregate cash consideration of $402 million for our acquisitions.
Our percentage of revenues from the Americas for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 increased compared to prior year periods primarily as a result of LifeLock sales which are entirely U.S.-based.
We are unable to predict the extent to which revenue in future periods will be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Sales and marketing expense were relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt
“Disclosure controls and procedures” include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the issuer’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this Item may be found under the heading “Litigation contingencies” in Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.


