fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America (U.S.) for interim financial information.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the three months ended July 5, 2019, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 4, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance on lease accounting which requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and also requires disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard that allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model.
Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, with early adoption permitted.
During the three months ended July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, we recognized amortization expense of capitalized contract acquisition costs of $28 million and $23 million, respectively.
We lease certain of our facilities, equipment, and data center co-locations under operating leases that expire on various dates through fiscal 2029.
Some of our leases contain renewal options, escalation clauses, rent concessions, and leasehold improvement incentives.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
We have elected to not recognize a lease liability or right-of-use (ROU) asset for short-term leases (leases with a term of twelve months or less that do not include an option to purchase the underlying asset).
Our incremental borrowing rate is a hypothetical rate for collateralized borrowings in economic environments where the leased asset is located based on credit rating factors.


item2.txt
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
Our Enterprise Security segment focuses on providing our Integrated Cyber Defense solutions to help business and government customers unify cloud and on-premises security to deliver a more effective cyber defense solution, while driving down cost and complexity.
See Subsequent event below and Note 17 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the planned divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.
Our Consumer Cyber Safety segment focuses on providing cyber safety solutions under our Norton LifeLock brand to help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identities, and home networks.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Enterprise Security assets to Broadcom Inc. for $10.7 billion in cash and assumption of certain liabilities (the Sale).
Third parties may be unwilling to enter into material agreements with respect to the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business.
New or existing customers, suppliers and business partners may prefer to enter into agreements with our competitors who have not expressed an intention to sell their business because customers, suppliers and business partners may perceive that such new relationships are likely to be more stable.
An alternative sale transaction, if available, may yield lower consideration than the proposed Sale, be on less favorable terms and conditions than those contained in the agreement and involve significant delay.
If the sale of our Enterprise Security assets is completed, we will no longer be engaged in the Enterprise Security business and our future results of operations will be dependent solely on the Cyber Safety Security business and differ materially from our previous results.
The Enterprise Security business generated approximately 49% of our total revenue for fiscal 2019, and approximately 53% of our total revenue for fiscal 2018.
A large portion of our Enterprise Security revenue is derived from arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services, and cloud offerings, yet customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions after the initial subscription or contract period.
In particular, term-based license subscriptions and cloud-based products are increasing as a percentage of our total revenues.


