fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the United States of America (“U.S.”) for interim financial information.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended September 28, 2018, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 3, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
The standard’s core principle is that a company recognizes revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
We adopted this new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
This cumulative-effect adjustment primarily consisted of additional deferred tax assets related to an intra-entity sale of intangible assets in periods prior to adoption, partially offset by the write-off of income tax consequences deferred from pre-adoption intra-entity transfers and other liabilities for amounts not recognized under legacy GAAP.
In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on lease accounting which will require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and will also require disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The new guidance will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model.
Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021.
In February 2018, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that will permit entities to reclassify tax effects stranded in accumulated other comprehensive income as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R.1) (the “Act”) to retained earnings.
The amendment will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, with early adoption permitted.
We recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for the goods or services.


item2.txt
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
•Net revenues decreased 5% primarily as a result of the divestiture of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by an increase in revenue from our identity and information protection solutions.
•Net loss and diluted net loss per share decreased primarily due to increased operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.
•Net revenues decreased 3% primarily as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, partially offset by an increase in revenue from our identity and information protection solutions.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
Accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee has recently completed its internal investigation.
We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.
We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business.
Several securities class action and derivative lawsuits were filed against us following our announcement on May 10, 2018 of the Audit Committee Investigation, including an action brought derivatively on behalf of Symantec’s 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
In addition, we have received certain demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under Delaware law.
No specific amounts of damages have been alleged in these lawsuits.
We will continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations.


