Item 2: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



Overview



Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a signal transmission solutions company built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions. Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.





We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation. We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators. We also seek to acquire businesses that we believe can help us achieve these objectives. 





Trends and Events



The following trends and events during 2019 have had varying effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.



Foreign currency



Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, Indian rupee, and Brazilian real. Generally, as the U.S. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, our revenues and earnings are negatively impacted as our foreign denominated revenues and earnings are translated into U.S. dollars at a lower rate. Conversely, as the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, our revenues and earnings are positively impacted. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S.



In addition to the translation impact described above, currency rate fluctuations have an economic impact on our financial results. As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.



Commodity prices



Our operating results can be affected by changes in prices of commodities, primarily copper and compounds, which are components in some of the products we sell. Generally, as the costs of inventory purchases increase due to higher commodity prices, we raise selling prices to customers to cover the increase in costs, resulting in higher sales revenue but a lower gross profit percentage. Conversely, a decrease in commodity prices would result in lower sales revenue but a higher gross profit percentage. Selling prices of our products are affected by many factors, including end market demand, capacity utilization, overall economic conditions, and commodity prices. Importantly, however, there is no exact measure of the effect of changing commodity prices, as there are thousands of transactions in any given quarter, each of which has various factors involved in the individual pricing decisions. Therefore, all references to the effect of copper prices or other commodity prices are estimates.



Channel Inventory



Our operating results also can be affected by the levels of Belden products purchased and held as inventory by our channel partners and customers. Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers. Generally, as our channel partners and customers change the level of products they buy from us and hold in their inventory, it impacts our revenues. Comparisons of our results between periods can be impacted by changes in the levels of channel inventory. We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory. As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.



Market Growth and Market Share



The markets in which we operate can generally be characterized as highly competitive and highly fragmented, with many players. We monitor available data regarding market growth, including independent market research reports, publicly available indices, and the financial results of our direct and indirect peer companies, in order to estimate the extent to which our served markets grew or contracted during a particular period. We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate. Our strategic goal is to utilize our Market Delivery System to target faster growing geographies, applications, and trends within our end markets, in order to achieve growth that is higher than the general market growth rate. To the extent that we exceed the market growth rates, we consider it to be the result of capturing market share.



Acquisitions



We completed the acquisitions of Opterna International Corp. (Opterna) on April 15, 2019 and FutureLink on April 5, 2019. The results of Opterna and FutureLink have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements from the acquisition dates and are reported in the Enterprise Solutions segment. See Note 3.



Grass Valley and SAM Integration Program



In 2018, we began a restructuring program to integrate SAM with Grass Valley. The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions. We recognized $3.0 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the six months ended June 30, 2019. The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment. We do not expect to incur any more costs for this program. 





Opterna and FutureLink Integration Program



In 2019, we began a restructuring program to integrate Opterna and FutureLink with our existing businesses. The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions. We recognized $2.5 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019. The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment. We expect to incur approximately $3 million of additional severance and restructuring costs for this program, most of which will be incurred by the end of 2019. 



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows that are or would be considered material to investors.



Critical Accounting Policies





•We did not change any of our existing critical accounting policies from those listed in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K other than updating our lease accounting policies for the adoption of ASU 2016-02;



•No existing accounting policies became critical accounting policies because of an increase in the materiality of associated transactions or changes in the circumstances to which associated judgments and estimates relate; and



•There were no significant changes in the manner in which critical accounting policies were applied or in which related judgments and estimates were developed. 



Results of Operations



Consolidated Income before Taxes 







The decrease in volume was primarily experienced in our Enterprise solutions segment, partially offset by an increase in volume in our Industrial solutions segment. 





Gross profit decreased $16.6 million and $22.4 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 from the comparable periods of 2018. Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2019 decreased due to the decreases in revenue discussed above and was further impacted from unfavorable mix which was partially offset by decreases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs of $6.8 million from the comparable period of 2018. Gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased due to the decreases in revenue discussed above and was further impacted from unfavorable mix which was partially offset by decreases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs of $15.7 million from the comparable period of 2018.



Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $16.4 million and $18.4 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 from the comparable periods of 2018 primarily due to a decrease in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs of $12.2 million and $18.8 million, respectively.



Research and development expenses decreased $2.2 million and $5.1 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 from the comparable periods of 2018 primarily due to a decrease in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs of $2.8 million and $4.0 million, respectively.



Amortization of intangibles decreased $2.7 million and $3.7 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 from the comparable periods of 2018 primarily due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized.



Operating income increased $4.6 million and $4.9 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 from the comparable periods of 2018 as the decreases in operating expenses were greater than the decreases in gross profit discussed above.



Net interest expense decreased $0.9 million and $3.7 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 from the comparable periods of 2018 as a result of our debt transactions during 2018. In March 2018, we issued €350.0 million aggregate principal amount of new senior subordinated notes due 2028 at an interest rate of 3.875%, and used the net proceeds of this offering and cash on hand to repurchase all of our outstanding €200.0 million 5.5% senior subordinated notes due 2023 as well as all of our outstanding $200.0 million 5.25% senior subordinated notes due 2024. 



The loss on debt extinguishment recognized in 2018 represents the premium paid to the bond holders to retire a portion of the 2023 and 2024 notes and the unamortized debt issuance costs written-off. 



Income before taxes increased $9.3 million and $33.1 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 from the comparable periods of 2018. This increase is primarily a result of the loss on debt extinguishment in the prior year as well as the decline in net interest expense and increase in operating income over the year ago periods discussed above.



Income Taxes





For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we recognized income tax expense of $5.2 million and $10.8 million, respectively, representing an effective tax rate of 10.9% and 13.8%, respectively. The effective tax rates were impacted by an income tax benefit of $6.4 million as a result of changes in our estimated valuation allowance requirement related to foreign tax credits due to the restructuring of certain foreign operations. These effective rates are also reflective of the impact of more favorable statutory tax rates applied to the earnings of these foreign operations due to the restructuring efforts.









Our income tax expense and effective tax rate in future periods may be impacted by many factors, including our geographic mix of income and changes in tax laws.



Consolidated Adjusted Revenues and Adjusted EBITDA 







The decrease in volume was primarily experienced in our Enterprise solutions segment, partially offset by an increase in volume in our Industrial solutions segment. 



Adjusted EBITDA decreased $21.4 million and $37.6 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018. Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended June 30, 2019 decreased due to the decreases in Adjusted Revenues discussed above and was further impacted by unfavorable mix as compared to the comparable period of 2018. Adjusted EBITDA for the six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased due to the decreases in Adjusted Revenues discussed above and was further impacted by unfavorable mix. 



Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information





We utilize the adjusted results to review our ongoing operations without the effect of these adjustments and for comparison to budgeted operating results. We believe the adjusted results are useful to investors because they help them compare our results to previous periods and provide important insights into underlying trends in the business and how management oversees our business operations on a day-to-day basis. As an example, we adjust for the purchase accounting effect of recording deferred revenue at fair value in order to reflect the revenues that would have otherwise been recorded by acquired businesses had they remained as independent entities. We believe this presentation is useful in evaluating the underlying performance of acquired companies. Similarly, we adjust for other acquisition-related expenses, such as amortization of intangibles and other impacts of fair value 

















Segment Results of Operations



For additional information regarding our segment measures, see Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



Enterprise Solutions







Enterprise Solutions revenues decreased $29.8 million and $54.3 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018. For the three months ended June 30, 2019, decreases in volume, unfavorable currency translation, and lower copper prices contributed an estimated $32.5 million, $4.9 million, and $1.8 million to the decline in revenues, respectively, partially offset by the impact of acquisitions, which contributed an estimated $9.4 million increase in revenues. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, decreases in volume, unfavorable currency translation, and lower copper prices contributed an estimated $58.3 million, $10.4 million, and $3.9 million to the decline in revenues, respectively, partially offset by the impact of acquisitions, which contributed an estimated $18.3 million increase in revenues. The decrease in volume was primarily due to softer demand in the final mile broadband and live media production markets. 



Enterprise Solutions EBITDA decreased $16.8 million and $34.7 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the year ago periods primarily as a result of the decline in revenues discussed above. 



Industrial Solutions 





Industrial Solutions revenues decreased $4.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018, and remained flat in the six months ended June 30, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018. The decrease in revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018 was primarily due to unfavorable currency translation and lower copper prices which had an estimated impact of $6.2 million and $3.0 million, respectively, and was partially offset by an increase in volume which had an estimated impact of $5.1 million. Revenues in the six months ended June 30, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018 remained flat as the increase in volume of $20.5 million, was offset by the decrease from unfavorable currency translation and lower copper prices, which had an estimated impact of $14.4 million and $6.0 million, respectively.



Industrial Solutions EBITDA decreased $5.8 million and $4.7 million, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 from the comparable periods of 2018 primarily as a result of the changes in revenues discussed above and investments in product development. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources











Operating cash flows were a source of cash of $21.6 million in 2019 and a use of cash of $29.4 million in 2018 representing an improvement of $51.0 million. The improvement in operating cash flows as compared to prior year is primarily due to an increase in net income of $36.1 million, and effective working capital management that resulted in an increase in cash received from receivables and inventory of $32.7 million and $31.8 million, respectively, over the year ago period. 



Net cash used for investing activities totaled $101.3 million in 2019, compared to $82.4 million for the comparable period of 2018. Investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 included capital expenditures of $50.8 million compared to $39.5 million in the comparable period of 2018. The increase in capital expenditures of $11.3 million is due in part to the investments we are making in India and software development. The six months ended June 30, 2019 included payments, net of cash acquired for acquisitions of $50.5 million primarily for the acquisition of Opterna, and the six months ended July 1, 2018 included payments, net of cash acquired for acquisitions of $84.6 million for SAM and NT2. Additionally, the six months ended July 1, 2018 included proceeds from the disposal of the MCS business and Hirshmann JV of $40.2 million, which closed on December 31, 2017.



Net cash used for financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 totaled $46.4 million, compared to $185.0 million for the comparable period of 2018. Financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 included payments under our share repurchase program of $22.8 million, cash dividend payments of $21.4 million, and net payments related to share based compensation activities of $2.0 million. Financing activities for the six months ended July 1, 2018 included payments under borrowing arrangements of $484.8 million, payments under our share repurchase program of $100.0 million, cash dividend payments of $22.0 million, debt issuance costs of $7.5 million, net payments related to share based compensation activities of $1.6 million, and $431.3 million of cash proceeds from the issuance of the €350.0 million 3.875% Notes due 2028.



Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $295.2 million as of June 30, 2019. Of this amount, $173.9 million was held outside of the U.S. in our foreign operations. Substantially all of the foreign cash and cash equivalents are readily convertible into U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies. We consider the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for any withholding taxes has been recorded. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to withholding taxes payable to the respective foreign countries.



Our outstanding debt obligations as of June 30, 2019 consisted of $1,478.9 million of senior subordinated notes. Additional discussion regarding our various borrowing arrangements is included in Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. As of June 30, 2019, we had $320.9 million in available borrowing capacity under our Revolver.



Forward-Looking Statements



Statements in this report other than historical facts are “forward-looking statements” made in reliance upon the safe harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding future financial performance (including revenues, expenses, earnings, margins, cash flows, dividends, capital expenditures and financial condition), plans and objectives, and related assumptions. These forward-looking statements reflect management’s current beliefs and expectations and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by any forward-looking statements based on a number of factors. These factors include, among others, those set forth in Part II, Item 1A and in other documents that we file with the SEC. 



We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.





Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Set forth below is information regarding our stock repurchases for the three months ended June 30, 2019 (in thousands, except per share amounts).







Item 6: Exhibits



Exhibits









Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





