Item 1. Financial Statements



BELDEN INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS





The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.





BELDEN INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.





BELDEN INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.





BELDEN INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENTS











The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.





BELDEN INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS







Basis of Presentation



The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our). We eliminate all significant affiliate accounts and transactions in consolidation.





•Are prepared from the books and records without audit, and



•Are prepared in accordance with the instructions for Form 10-Q and do not include all of the information required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for complete statements, but



•Include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.



These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Business Description



We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions. Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications. 



Reporting Periods



Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31. Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was March 31, 2019, the 90th day of our fiscal year 2019. Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days. The six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018 included 181 and 182 days, respectively. 



Fair Value Measurement





•Level 1 – Quoted prices in active markets that are unadjusted and accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities;



•Level 2 – Quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, or financial instruments for which significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly; and



•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable. 



As of and during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3). We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018.



Cash and Cash Equivalents



We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents. We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments. As of June 30, 2019, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. 





Contingent Liabilities



We have established liabilities for environmental and legal contingencies that are probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable, the amounts of which are currently not material. We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel. We are, from time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to our business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of our products, allegations of patent or trademark infringement, and litigation and administrative proceedings involving employment matters and commercial disputes. Based on facts currently available, we believe the disposition of the claims that are pending or asserted will not have a materially adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flow.



As of June 30, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.4 million, $3.6 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.



Revenue Recognition





Subsequent Events



We evaluated subsequent events after the balance sheet date through the financial statement issuance date for appropriate accounting and disclosure. See Note 17.



Current-Year Adoption of Accounting Pronouncements







In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-02 (“ASU 2018-02”), Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. ASU 2018-02 provides an option to allow reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The new guidance is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018. We adopted ASU 2018-02 effective January 1, 2019, and elected to not reclassify the income tax effects of the Act from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings. The adoption had no impact on our results of operations. 





In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-07 (“ASU 2018-07”), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. We adopted ASU 2018-07 effective January 1, 2019. The adoption had no impact on our results of operations. 



In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) adopted the final rule under SEC Release No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, amending certain disclosure requirements that were redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded. Additionally, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements. Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement. The analysis should present a reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance of each period presented. This final rule was effective on November 5, 2018. We implemented SEC Release No. 33-10532 effective January 1, 2019, which had no impact on our results of operations. 



Pending Adoption of Recent Accounting Pronouncements



In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 (“ASU 2016-13”), Financial Instruments - Credit Losses. The main provisions of ASU 2016-13 provide financial statement users with more decision-useful information about the expected credit losses on financial instruments and other commitments to extend credit held by a reporting entity at each reporting date, and require a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. The new standard will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact this update will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.





Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers and in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are not included in our revenues. The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by major product category. 





The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the location of the customer purchasing the product.







The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.





We generate revenues primarily by selling products that provide secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications. We also generate revenues from providing support and professional services. We sell our products to distributors, end-users, installers, and directly to original equipment manufacturers. At times, we enter into arrangements that involve the delivery of multiple performance obligations. For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied. Most of our performance obligations related to the sale of products are satisfied at a point in time when control of the product is transferred based on the shipping terms of the arrangement. Generally, we determine relative selling price using the prices charged to customers on a standalone basis.



The amount of consideration we receive and revenue we recognize varies due to rebates, returns, and price adjustments. We estimate the expected rebates, returns, and price adjustments based on an analysis of historical experience, anticipated sales demand, and trends in product pricing. We adjust our estimate of revenue at the earlier of when the most likely amount of consideration 





we expect to receive changes or when the consideration becomes fixed. Adjustments to revenue for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods were not significant during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018. 







Depending on the terms of an arrangement, we may defer the recognition of a portion of the consideration received because we have to satisfy a future obligation. Consideration allocated to support services under a support and maintenance contract is typically paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the service. Consideration allocated to professional services is typically recognized when or as the services are performed depending on the terms of the arrangement. As of June 30, 2019, total deferred revenue was $107.4 million, and of this amount, $94.2 million is expected to be recognized within the next twelve months, and the remaining $13.2 million is long-term and is expected to be recognized over a period greater than twelve months.







We expense sales commissions as incurred when the duration of the related revenue arrangement is one year or less. We capitalize sales commissions in other current and long-lived assets on our balance sheet when the original duration of the related revenue arrangement is longer than one year, and we amortize it over the related revenue arrangement period. 









Opterna International Corp.



We acquired 100% of the shares of Opterna International Corp. (Opterna) on April 15, 2019 for a preliminary purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $61.5 million. Of the $61.5 million purchase price, $45.5 million was paid on April 15, 2019 and was funded with cash on hand. The acquisition included a potential earnout, which is based upon future Opterna financial targets through April 15, 2021. The maximum earnout consideration is $25.0 million, but based upon a third party valuation specialist using certain assumptions in a discounted cash flow model, the estimated fair value of the earnout included in the purchase price was $16.0 million. Opterna is an international fiber optics solutions business based in Sterling, Virginia, which designs and manufactures a range of complementary fiber connectivity, cabinet, and enclosure products used in optical networks. The results of Opterna have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements from April 15, 2019, and are reported within the Enterprise Solutions segment. Certain subsidiaries of Opterna include noncontrolling interests. Because Opterna has a controlling financial interest in 









The above purchase price allocation is preliminary, and is subject to revision as additional information about the fair value of individual assets and liabilities becomes available. The preliminary measurement of receivables, inventories, intangible assets, goodwill, deferred income taxes, other assets and liabilities, and noncontrolling interests are subject to change. A change in the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired or noncontrolling interests will change the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill.



A single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions. The judgments we have used in estimating the preliminary fair values assigned to each class of acquired assets and assumed liabilities could materially affect the results of our operations.



The preliminary fair value of acquired receivables is $5.3 million, which is equivalent to its gross contractual amount. 



For purposes of the above allocation, we based our preliminary estimate of the fair values for the acquired inventory, intangible assets, and noncontrolling interests on valuation studies performed by a third party valuation firm. We have estimated a preliminary fair value adjustment for inventories based on the estimated selling price of the work-in-process and finished goods acquired at the closing date less the sum of the costs to complete the work-in-process, the costs of disposal, and a reasonable profit allowance for our post acquisition selling efforts. We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the preliminary fair value of the identifiable intangible assets (Level 3 valuation). Our preliminary estimate of the fair values for the noncontrolling interests were based on the comparable EBITDA multiple valuation technique (Level 3 valuation).









The amortizable intangible assets reflected in the table above were determined by us to have finite lives. The useful life for the developed technology intangible asset was based on the estimated time that the technology provides us with a competitive advantage and thus approximates the period and pattern of consumption of the intangible asset. The useful life for the customer relationship intangible asset was based on our forecasts of estimated sales from recurring customers. The useful life of the backlog intangible asset was based on our estimate of when the ordered items would ship and control of the items transfers. The useful life for the trademarks was based on the period of time we expect to continue to go to market using the trademarks. 



Our consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 included $8.8 million and $(0.1) million, respectively, from Opterna. The income before taxes from Opterna included $0.9 million of amortization of intangible assets and $0.6 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value. Consolidated net income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 included $0.1 million of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of Opterna.



The following table illustrates the unaudited pro forma effect on operating results as if the Opterna acquisition had been completed as of January 1, 2018.





The above unaudited pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes only and does not purport to represent what our results of operations would have been had we completed the acquisition on the date assumed, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in future periods. Pro forma adjustments exclude cost savings from any synergies resulting from the acquisition.



FutureLink



We acquired the FutureLink product line and related assets from Suttle, Inc. on April 5, 2019 for a preliminary purchase price of $5 million that was funded with cash on hand. The acquisition of FutureLink allows us to offer a more complete set of fiber product offerings. The results from the acquisition of FutureLink have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements from April 5, 2019, and are reported within the Enterprise Solutions segment. The acquisition of FutureLink was not material to our financial position or results of operations. 





Net-Tech Technology, Inc.



We acquired 100% of the shares of Net-Tech Technology, Inc. (NT2) on April 25, 2018 for a purchase price of $8.5 million that was funded with cash on hand. NT2 is an integrator of optical passive components and network optimization products used within broadband network applications where optical backhaul is used. NT2 is located in the United States. The results of NT2 have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements from April 25, 2018, and are reported within the Enterprise Solutions segment. The NT2 acquisition was not material to our financial position or results of operations. 



Snell Advanced Media







During 2019, we did not record any significant measurement-period adjustments.



A single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions. The judgments we have used in estimating the fair values assigned to each class of acquired assets and assumed liabilities could materially affect the results of our operations.



The fair value of acquired receivables is $16.6 million, which is equivalent to its gross contractual amount. 



For purposes of the above allocation, we based our estimate of the fair values for the acquired inventory; property, plant, and equipment; intangible assets; and deferred revenue on valuation studies performed by a third party valuation firm. We have estimated a fair value adjustment for inventories based on the estimated selling price of the work-in-process and finished goods acquired at the closing date less the sum of the costs to complete the work-in-process, the costs of disposal, and a reasonable profit 





allowance for our post acquisition selling efforts. To determine the value of the acquired property, plant, and equipment, we used various valuation methods, including both the market approach, which considers sales prices of similar assets in similar conditions (Level 2 valuation), and the cost approach, which considers the cost to replace the asset adjusted for depreciation (Level 3 valuation). We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and deferred revenue (Level 3 valuation). 







The amortizable intangible assets reflected in the table above were determined by us to have finite lives. The useful life for the developed technology intangible asset was based on the estimated time that the technology provides us with a competitive advantage and thus approximates the period and pattern of consumption of the intangible asset. The useful life for the customer relationship intangible asset was based on our forecasts of estimated sales from recurring customers. The useful life of the backlog intangible asset was based on our estimate of when the ordered items would ship. The useful life for the trademarks was based on the period of time we expect to continue to go to market using the trademarks. 



Our consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes for the three months ended July 1, 2018 include $31.1 million and $(6.6) million, respectively, from SAM. The loss before taxes from SAM included $20.3 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $2.8 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $0.7 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value. Our consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes for the six months ended July 1, 2018 included $51.9 million and $(9.4) million, respectively, from SAM. The loss before taxes from SAM included $29.5 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $5.0 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $1.2 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value.



The following table illustrates the unaudited pro forma effect on operating results as if the SAM acquisition had been completed as of January 1, 2017.







The above unaudited pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes only and does not purport to represent what our results of operations would have been had we completed the acquisition on the date assumed, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in future periods. Pro forma adjustments exclude cost savings from any synergies resulting from the acquisition.







The key measures of segment profit or loss are Segment Revenues and Segment EBITDA. Segment Revenues represent non-affiliate revenues and include revenues that would have otherwise been recorded by acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income due to the effects of purchase accounting and the associated write-down of acquired deferred revenue to fair value. Segment EBITDA excludes certain items, including depreciation expense; amortization of intangibles; asset impairment; severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; purchase accounting effects related to acquisitions, such as the adjustment of acquired inventory and deferred revenue to fair value; and other costs. We allocate corporate expenses to the segments for purposes of measuring Segment EBITDA. Corporate expenses are allocated on the basis of each segment’s relative EBITDA prior to the allocation.



Our measure of segment assets does not include cash, goodwill, intangible assets, deferred tax assets, or corporate assets. All goodwill is allocated to reporting units of our segments for purposes of impairment testing. 







The following table is a reconciliation of the total of the reportable segments’ Revenues and EBITDA to consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes, respectively. 



















For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 1.2 million and 1.1 million, respectively, because to do so would have been anti-dilutive. In addition, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.3 million and 0.3 million, respectively, because the related performance conditions have not been satisfied. Furthermore, for both 





the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include the impact of preferred shares that are convertible into 6.9 million common shares, because deducting the preferred stock dividends from net income was more dilutive.



For the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.9 million and 0.7 million, respectively, because to do so would have been anti-dilutive. In addition, for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.3 million and 0.2 million, respectively, because the related performance conditions have not been satisfied. Furthermore, for both the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include the impact of preferred shares that are convertible into 6.9 million common shares, because deducting the preferred stock dividends from net income was more dilutive. 



For purposes of calculating basic earnings per share, unvested restricted stock units are not included in the calculation of basic weighted average shares outstanding until all necessary conditions have been satisfied and issuance of the shares underlying the restricted stock units is no longer contingent. Necessary conditions are not satisfied until the vesting date, at which time holders of our restricted stock units receive shares of our common stock.



For purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, unvested restricted stock units are included to the extent that they are dilutive. In determining whether unvested restricted stock units are dilutive, each issuance of restricted stock units is considered separately.



Once a restricted stock unit has vested, it is included in the calculation of both basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding.











We have operating and finance leases for properties, including manufacturing facilities, warehouses, and office space; as well as vehicles and certain equipment. We make certain judgments in determining whether a contract contains a lease in accordance with ASU 2016-02. Our leases have remaining lease terms of less than 1 year to 16 years, some of which include options to extend the lease for a period of up to 15 years and some include options to terminate the leases within 1 year. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably certain as of the commencement date of the lease. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material variable lease payments.



We have entered into various short-term operating leases with an initial term of twelve months or less. These leases are not recorded on our balance sheet, and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, the rent expense for short-term leases was not material.



We have certain property and equipment lease contracts that may contain lease and non-lease components, and we have elected to utilize the practical expedient to account for these components together as a single combined lease component. 



As the rate implicit in each lease is not readily determinable, we use the incremental borrowing rate to determine the present value of the lease payments, which is unique to each leased asset, and is based upon the term of the lease, commencement date of the lease, local currency of the leased asset, and the credit rating of the legal entity leasing the asset. 



























Depreciation and Amortization Expense



We recognized depreciation expense of $12.3 million and $25.0 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. We recognized depreciation expense of $12.0 million and $23.9 million in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively. 



We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $23.4 million and $47.7 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019. We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $25.5 million and $50.2 million in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively. 







In 2019, we began a restructuring program to integrate Opterna and FutureLink with our existing businesses. The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions. We recognized $2.5 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019. These costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment. We expect to incur approximately $3.0 million of additional severance and restructuring costs for this program, most of which will be incurred by the end of 2019. 





In 2018, we began a restructuring program to integrate SAM with Grass Valley. The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions. We did not recognize severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three months ended June 30, 2019 and we recognized $3.0 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the six months ended June 30, 2019. We recognized $20.3 million and $29.5 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively. The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment. We do not expect to incur any more costs for this program. 





In 2016, we began a program to consolidate our manufacturing footprint. The manufacturing consolidation was complete as of December 31, 2018. We recognized $3.9 million and $11.4 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and six months ended July 1, 2018. The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions segments, as the manufacturing locations involved in the program serve both platforms. 













The other restructuring and integration costs primarily consisted of equipment transfer, costs to consolidate operating and support facilities, retention bonuses, relocation, travel, legal, and other costs. The majority of the other restructuring and integration costs related to these actions were paid as incurred or are payable within the next 60 days. 



There were no significant severance accrual balances as of June 30, 2019 or December 31, 2018.











Revolving Credit Agreement due 2022



Our Revolving Credit Agreement provides a $400.0 million multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility (the Revolver). The borrowing base under the Revolver includes eligible accounts receivable; inventory; and property, plant and equipment of certain of our subsidiaries in the U.S., Canada, Germany, and the Netherlands. The maturity date of the Revolver is May 16, 2022. Interest on outstanding borrowings is variable, based upon LIBOR or other similar indices in foreign jurisdictions, plus a spread that ranges from 1.25%-1.75%, depending upon our leverage position. We pay a commitment fee on our available borrowing capacity of 0.25%. In the event we borrow more than 90% of our borrowing base, we are subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. As of June 30, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding on the Revolver, and our available borrowing capacity was $320.9 million. 



Senior Subordinated Notes



We have outstanding €350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior subordinated notes due 2028 (the 2028 Notes). The carrying value of the 2028 Notes as of June 30, 2019 is $398.2 million. The 2028 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2028 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2027, 2026, and 2025 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year.



We have outstanding €450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375% senior subordinated notes due 2027 (the 2027 Notes). The carrying value of the 2027 Notes as of June 30, 2019 is $511.9 million. The 2027 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2027 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2026, and 2025 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year. 



We have outstanding €200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.125% senior subordinated notes due 2026 (the 2026 Notes). The carrying value of the 2026 Notes as of June 30, 2019 is $227.5 million. The 2026 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2026 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2027, and 2025 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 of each year.



We have outstanding €300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.875% senior subordinated notes due 2025 (the 2025 Notes). The carrying value of the 2025 Notes as of June 30, 2019 is $341.3 million. The 2025 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2025 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2027, and 2026 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. 



Fair Value of Long-Term Debt





The fair value of our senior subordinated notes as of June 30, 2019 was approximately $1,549.0 million based on quoted prices of the debt instruments in inactive markets (Level 2 valuation). This amount represents the fair value of our senior subordinated notes with a carrying value of $1,478.9 million as of June 30, 2019. 





All of our euro denominated notes were issued by Belden Inc., a USD functional currency entity. As of June 30, 2019, all of our outstanding foreign denominated debt is designated as a net investment hedge on the foreign currency risk of our net investment in our euro foreign operations. The objective of the hedge is to protect the net investment in the foreign operation against adverse changes in the euro exchange rate. The transaction gain or loss is reported in the translation adjustment section of other comprehensive income. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, the transaction gain associated with these notes that was reported in other comprehensive income was $6.9 million and $66.5 million, respectively. 





For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we recognized income tax expense of $5.2 million and $10.8 million, respectively, representing an effective tax rate of 10.9% and 13.8%, respectively. The effective tax rates were impacted by an income tax benefit of $6.4 million as a result of changes in our estimated valuation allowance requirement related to foreign tax credits due to the restructuring of certain foreign operations. These effective rates are also reflective of the impact of more favorable statutory tax rates applied to the earnings of these foreign operations due to the restructuring efforts.





Our income tax expense and effective tax rate in future periods may be impacted by many factors, including our geographic mix of income and changes in tax laws.



































On November 29, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program, which allows us to purchase up to $300.0 million of our common stock through open market repurchases, negotiated transactions, or other means, in accordance with applicable securities laws and other restrictions. This program is funded with cash on hand and cash flows from operating activities. The program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended at any time at the discretion of the Company. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we repurchased 0.4 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $22.8 million and an average price per share of $57.47. During the three months ended July 1, 2018, we repurchased 0.4 million shares of our common stock under a previous share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $24.7 million and an average price per share of $63.75. During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we repurchased 1.4 million shares of our common stock under a previous share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $100.0 million and an average price per share of $69.53.





On July 15, 2019, all outstanding 6.75% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (the Preferred Stock) automatically converted into shares of Belden common stock at the conversion rate of 132.50 shares of common stock per share of Preferred Stock. The conversion of the Preferred Stock resulted in the issuance of approximately 6.9 million shares of Belden common stock on the conversion date. Upon conversion, the Preferred Stock were automatically extinguished and discharged, are no longer deemed outstanding for all purposes, and delisted from trading on the New York Stock Exchange.



In July 2019, we repurchased 0.5 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program authorized on November 29, 2018 by our Board or Directors for an aggregate cost of $27.2 million and an average price per share of $55.17.



Item 1: Legal Proceedings



SEC Investigation - As disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 3, 2018, we are fully cooperating with an SEC investigation related to the material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 disclosed in our 2017 Form 10-K. We continue to believe that the outcome of the investigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company.



We are a party to various other legal proceedings and administrative actions that are incidental to our operations. In our opinion, the proceedings and actions in which we are involved should not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, or cash flows. However, since the trends and outcome of this litigation are inherently uncertain, we cannot give absolute assurance regarding the future resolution of such litigation, or that such litigation may not become material in the future.



Item 1A: Risk Factors



There have been no material changes with respect to risk factors as previously disclosed in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.



