The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In connection with the Separation, Hewlett-Packard Company changed its name to HP Inc. (“HP”) and entered into a separation and distribution agreement as well as various other agreements with Hewlett Packard Enterprise that provide a framework for the relationships between the parties, including among others a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, a transition service agreement, a real estate matters agreement, a master commercial agreement and an information technology service agreement.
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 14, 2017.
The Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements include the accounts of HP and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which HP has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary.
In November 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which addresses the presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
The guidance requires entities to present the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
As a result, entities will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
HP is required to adopt the guidance retrospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The guidance requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments on the statement of cash flows.We plan to continue to focus on shifting the mix in the installed base to higher value units and expanding our innovative Ink, Laser, Graphics and 3D printing programs.
Our focus is on placing higher value printer units which offer strong annuity of toner and ink, the design and deployment of A3 products and solutions, accelerating growth in Graphic solutions and 3D printing.
For instance, we source the majority of our A4 and a portion of our A3 portfolio of laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges from Canon.
To address these challenges, we continue to pursue innovation with a view towards developing new products and services aligned with generating market demand and meeting the needs of our customers and partners.
We also need to continue to optimize our sales coverage models, align our sales incentives with our strategic goals, improve channel execution, strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, and develop and capitalize on market opportunities.
In addition, for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of our U.S. deferred tax assets that are expected to be realized at a lower rate, which are considered provisional estimates under the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.