Item 1.Financial Statements



MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS







See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.





MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME







See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.





MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME







See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.





MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 







See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.





MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS







See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.





NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





UNAUDITED



1.Description of the Business







The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Certain information and note disclosures normally included in the annual financial statements, prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. We recommend that you read these condensed consolidated financial statements in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC. We believe that the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q reflect all adjustments that are necessary to fairly present the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods presented. The results of operations for such interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results that can be expected for the full year.



We classified prepaid expenses and other current assets into separate lines on our condensed consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2018 and conformed our condensed consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017, accordingly. Furthermore, our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were conformed based on the balance sheet presentation. 



3.Revenue from Contracts with Customers



Significant Accounting Policies



Revenue Recognition - On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018. ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied. ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $3.3 million as a result of applying ASC 606.



We account for a contract when both we and the customer approve and commit; our rights and those of the customer are identified, payment terms are identified; the contract has commercial substance; and collectability of consideration is probable. At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations. Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract. The transaction price can be a fixed or variable amount. It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled. We include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and historical, current and forecasted information that is reasonably available to us. The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract. The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which we forecast our expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service promised. Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.





We recognize revenue over time when there is a continuous transfer of control to our customer. For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process. When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time. For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered. We typically use a cost-based input method to measure progress. Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses. Revenue is recognized proportionally as contract costs are incurred plus estimated fees. For time-and-material contracts, we bill the customer per labor hour and per material, and revenue is recognized in the amount invoiced since the amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract. If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time. Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer. We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title. Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized. Essentially, all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.



Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements. Contract modifications impact performance obligations when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations. The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is recognized as an adjustment to revenue and profit cumulatively. Furthermore, a significant change in one or more estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts. We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified. The impact of adjustments in contract estimates can be reflected in either revenue or operating expenses on the condensed consolidated statement of income. 



We have an Estimate at Completion process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations. As part of this process, management reviews information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenue and costs. The risks and opportunities include management’s judgment about the ability and cost to achieve the contract milestones and other technical contract requirements. Management must make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the length of time to complete the performance obligation, execution by our subcontractors, the availability and timing of funding from our customer and overhead cost rates, among other variables. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $4.5 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $8.8 million. No adjustment on any one contract was material to our condensed consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.



Results for prior periods were reported in accordance with ASC 605. Revenue for cost-reimbursable contracts were recorded as reimbursable costs were incurred, including an estimated share of the applicable contractual fees earned. For performance-based fees under cost-reimbursable contracts, we recognized the relevant portion of the expected fee to be awarded by the customer at the time such fee can be reasonably estimated, based on factors such as our prior award experience and communications with the customer regarding performance, or upon approval by the customer. For time-and-materials contracts, revenue was recognized to the extent of billable rates times hours delivered plus materials and other reimbursable costs incurred. For long-term fixed-price contracts, revenue was recognized at a rate per unit as the units were delivered or by other methods to measure services provided. Revenue from other long-term fixed-price contracts were recognized ratably over the contract period or by other appropriate methods to measure services provided. Contract costs were expensed as incurred except for certain limited long-term contracts noted below. For long-term contracts, specifically described in the scope section of ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts, we applied the percentage of completion method. Under the percentage of completion method, income was recognized at a consistent profit margin over the period of performance based on estimated profit margins at completion of the contract. This method of accounting required estimating the total revenue and total contract cost at completion of the contract. These estimates were periodically reviewed and revisions were made as required using the cumulative catch-up method. The impact on revenue and contract profit as a result of these revisions were included in the periods in which the revisions were made. Estimated losses on contracts at completion were recognized when identified. In certain circumstances, revenue was recognized when contract amendments were not finalized. 



Contract assets - Amounts are invoiced as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals or upon achievement of contractual milestones. Generally, revenue recognition occurs before billing, resulting 





in contract assets. These contract assets are referred to as unbilled receivables and are reported within receivables, net on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.



Billed receivables - Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified as billed receivables and are reported within receivables, net on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The portion of the payments retained by the customer until final contract settlement is not considered a significant financing component because the intent is to protect the customer.



Contract liabilities - We receive advances and milestone payments from our customers on selected contracts that exceed revenue earned to date, resulting in contract liabilities. Contract liabilities typically are not considered a significant financing component because it is used to meet working capital demands that can be higher in the early stages of a contract and to protect us from the customer failing to adequately complete some or all of its obligations under the contract. Contract liabilities are reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheet on a net contract basis at the end of each reporting period.



Contract costs - Contract costs include direct labor, direct materials, overhead and, when applicable, general and administrative expenses. Incremental costs of obtaining a contract that we expect to recover are recognized as deferred contract costs and are amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer to the customer of the goods or services. Other incremental costs are expensed when incurred. Costs of fulfilling a contract that relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that can be specifically identified, generate or enhance resources that will be used in satisfying future performance obligations and are expected to be recovered are recognized as deferred contract costs and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer of the goods or services to the customer. Other costs of fulfilling a contract (costs of wasted materials, labor or other resources to fulfill the contracts that were not reflected in the price of the contract and costs that relate to satisfied performance obligations in the contract) are expensed when incurred.



Deferred contract costs - Costs of obtaining or fulfilling a contract that meet the criteria in ASC 340, Other Assets and Deferred Costs, are capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer of goods or services to the customer. Deferred contracts costs are reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheet within current or non-current other assets based on the expected life of the related contract. At September 30, 2018, we had $6.2 million of deferred contract costs. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 we recorded amortization expense of $8 thousand. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded amortization expense of $0.2 million. 



Revenue from Contracts with Customers





We have one reportable segment. Our U.S. government customers typically exercise independent decision-making and contracting authority. Offices or divisions within an agency or department of the U.S. government may directly, or through a prime contractor, use our services as a separate customer as long as the customer has independent decision-making and contracting authority within its organization. We treat sales to U.S. government customers as sales within the U.S. regardless of where the services are performed. 





The following tables disclose revenue (in thousands) by contract type, customer, prime or subcontractor and geography for the periods presented. Prior period amounts have not been adjusted under the modified retrospective method. 















Receivables at September 30, 2018 are expected to be substantially collected within one year except for approximately $0.6 million, of which 92% is related to receivables from sales to the U.S. government or from contracts in which we acted as a subcontractor to other contractors selling to the U.S. government. We do not believe that we have significant exposure to credit risk as billed receivable and unbilled receivables are primarily due from the U.S. government. The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our estimate for exposure to compliance, contractual issues and bad debts related to prime contractors. 









Changes in the balances of contract assets and contract liabilities are primarily due to the timing difference between our performance and our customers' payments. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $4.2 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $10.0 million.











The purchase price of $184.0 million was allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The goodwill recorded related to this transaction will be deductible for tax purposes over 15 years. Recognition of goodwill is largely attributed to the value paid for InfoZen's capabilities to support customers in modernization, agile software development, cloud migration and threat monitoring and assessment capabilities. 



In allocating the purchase price, we considered, among other factors, analysis of historical financial performance and estimates of future performance of InfoZen's contracts. The components of other intangible assets associated with the acquisition were customer relationships and backlog valued at $49.2 million and $5.7 million, respectively. Customer contracts and related relationships represent the underlying relationships and agreements with InfoZen's existing customers. Customer relationships are amortized using the pattern of benefits method over their estimated useful lives of approximately 20 years. Backlog is amortized straight-line over its estimated useful life of 1 year. The weighted-average amortization period for the intangible assets is 18 years.











Under ASC 260, Earnings per Share, the two-class method is an earnings allocation formula that determines earnings per share for each class of common stock according to dividends declared (or accumulated) and participation rights in undistributed earnings. Under that method, basic and diluted earnings per share data are presented for each class of common stock.



In applying the two-class method, we determined that undistributed earnings should be allocated equally on a per share basis between Class A and Class B common stock. Under our Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of the common stock are entitled to participate ratably, on a share-for-share basis as if all shares of common stock were of a single class, in such dividends as may be declared by the Board of Directors. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we declared and paid quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.25 per share and $0.21 per share, respectively, on both classes of common stock.



Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period. Shares issued during the period and shares reacquired during the period are weighted for the portion of the period in which the shares were outstanding. Diluted earnings per share have been computed in a manner consistent with that of basic earnings per share while giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares that were outstanding during each period.







For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, options to purchase 242,789 shares and 363,635 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, options to purchase 268,013 shares and 301,985 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would 





have been anti-dilutive. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 387,926 shares and 202,459 shares, respectively, issued from the exercise of stock options. 









Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $6.4 million and $2.0 million, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $19.1 million and $6.1 million, respectively.



7.Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets



















Revolving Credit Facility—We maintain a credit facility with a syndicate of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A, as sole administrative agent. The credit agreement provides for a $500 million revolving credit facility, with a $75 million letter of credit sublimit and a $30 million swing line loan sublimit. The credit agreement also includes an accordion feature that permits us to arrange with the lenders for the provision of additional commitments. The maturity date is August 17, 2022. 





The terms of the credit agreement permit prepayment and termination of the loan commitments at any time, subject to certain conditions. The credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain leverage ratios and a certain consolidated coverage ratio. The credit agreement also contains various covenants, including affirmative covenants with respect to certain reporting requirements and maintaining certain business activities, and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or impose restrictions on our ability to incur liens, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, make acquisitions and undertake certain other actions. As of and during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.



There was $0 and $31.0 million outstanding on our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The maximum available borrowing under the revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018 was $484.7 million. As of September 30, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 





Contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts, are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements and, from time-to-time, agencies of the U.S. government, in the ordinary course of business, investigate whether our operations are conducted in accordance with these requirements and the terms of the relevant contracts. U.S. government investigations of us, whether related to our U.S. government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines or penalties being imposed upon us, or could lead to suspension or debarment from future U.S. government contracting activities. Management believes it has adequately reserved for any losses that may be experienced from any investigation of which it is aware. The Defense Contract Audit Agency has substantially completed our incurred cost audits through 2012 with no material adjustments. The remaining audits for 2013 through 2017 are not expected to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow and management believes it has adequately reserved for any losses. 



In the normal course of business, we are involved in certain governmental and legal proceedings, claims and disputes and have litigation pending under several suits. We believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, except for the matter noted below.



An officer of our Company is a party to a pending arbitration proceeding with a former employer that relates to certain breach of contract claims. Pursuant to indemnification arrangements we have with this officer, we may be exposed to a potential loss 







We were a defendant in a lawsuit filed by two former employees with allegations of retaliation under both the False Claims Act and the Defense Contractor Whistleblower Protection Act. A jury found ManTech liable for discharging the two former employees. Both parties filed appeals to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. In August 2018, the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the finding of liability as to one of the former employees and affirmed the finding of liability as to the other former employee in the amount of $1.4 million. Our insurance policy covers the amount of the liability, therefore, no loss was recognized as of the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The impact of future events in connection with this matter will not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow.



We have $15.3 million outstanding on our letter of credit, of which $15.2 million is related to an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.





Our 2016 Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) was designed to attract, retain and motivate key employees. The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs). Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock. At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year. On January 2, 2018, there were 588,464 additional shares made available for issuance under the Plan. Through September 30, 2018, the Board of Directors has authorized the issuance of up to 14,551,899 shares under this Plan. Through September 30, 2018, the remaining aggregate number of shares of our common stock available for future grants under the Plan was 6,317,478. The Plan expires in March 2026.



The Plan is administered by the compensation committee of our Board of Directors, along with its delegates. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the committee has the Board of Directors’ authority to administer and interpret the Plan, including the discretion to determine the exercise price, vesting schedule, contractual life and the number of shares to be issued.



Stock Compensation Expense—For both the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $1.3 million of stock-based compensation expense. For both the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $3.6 million of stock-based compensation expense. No compensation expense of employees with stock awards, including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $(1.2) million and $(0.3) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $(2.5) million and $(0.4) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock. 



Stock Options—Under the Plan, we have issued stock options. A stock option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation to purchase a certain number of shares at a predetermined price for a specific period of time. We typically issue options that vest over three years in equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Under the terms of the Plan, the contractual life of the option grants may not exceed eight years. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.



Fair Value Determination—We have used the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to determine the fair value of our awards on the date of grant. We will reconsider the use of the Black-Scholes-Merton model if additional information becomes available in the future that indicates another model would be more appropriate or if grants issued in future periods have characteristics that cannot be reasonably estimated under this model.







•Volatility—The expected volatility of the options granted was estimated based upon historical volatility of our share price through weekly observations of our trading history.





•Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury strips was used to extrapolate a forward-yield curve. This “term structure” of future interest rates was then input into a numeric model to provide the equivalent risk-free rate to be used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model based on the expected term of the underlying grants.



•Dividend Yield—The Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model requires an expected dividend yield as an input. We have calculated our expected dividend yield based on an expected annual cash dividend of $1.00 per share.







Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $9.98 and $5.65, respectively. Option grants that vested during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 had a combined fair value of $0.7 million and $0.9 million, respectively.













Unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested awards was $3.9 million as of September 30, 2018, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2 years.



Restricted Stock—Under the Plan, we have issued restricted stock. A restricted stock award is an issuance of shares that cannot be sold or transferred by the recipient until the vesting period lapses. Restricted stock issued to members of our Board of Directors vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date. The related compensation expense is recognized over the service period and is based on the grant date fair value of the stock. The grant date fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant.



Restricted Stock Activity— The following table summarizes the restricted stock activity during the year ended December 31, 2017 and the nine months ended September 30, 2018. 





RSUs—Under the Plan, we have issued RSUs. RSUs are not actual shares, but rather a right to receive shares in the future. The shares are not issued and the employee cannot sell or transfer shares prior to vesting and have no voting rights until the RSUs vest. Employees who are granted RSUs do not receive dividend payments during the vesting period. Our employees have been granted performance-based RSUs and time-based RSUs. Performance-based RSUs result in the delivery of shares only if (a) performance criteria is met and (b) the employee remains employed, in good standing, through the date of the performance period of two years. In 2018, our employees were granted time-based RSUs, instead of performance-based RSUs. These time-based RSUs vest in one-third increments on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant. The grant date fair value of the RSUs is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of dividends expected to be awarded during the service period. We recognize the grant date fair value of RSUs of shares we expect to issue as compensation expense ratably over the requisite service period.











The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) was enacted on December 22, 2017. TCJA reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018. At December 31, 2017, we made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances and effective tax rate for the deductibility of officers' compensation, the acquisition of InfoZen, and assets that qualify for an immediate deduction. Our accounting for those items, as impacted by the TCJA, is now complete and no material adjustments were required. 





Item 1.Legal Proceedings





Although we cannot predict the outcome of these and other legal proceedings, investigations, claims and disputes, based on the information now available to us, we do not believe the ultimate resolution of these matters, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results.



Item 1A.Risk Factors



There have been no material changes from the risk factors described in the “Risk Factors” section of our Annual Report on the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.



Item 6.Exhibits









SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.







