fls.txt
Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about expected earnings, revenues, growth, liquidity or other financial matters.


item1.txt
All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein are unaudited.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been included.
These condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 (the “2018 Annual Report”).
In 2018, the Company implemented a new lease management system that facilitated the adoption of this standard and enabled the Company to fulfill its requirements for both reporting and disclosure purposes, as well as to better manage and monitor the Company’s ongoing lease portfolio.
The Company ensured all key system functionality and other requirements were met, and we completed our assessment of the standard and implemented the necessary changes to our existing policies, processes and controls to achieve appropriate compliance with regards to our lease portfolio.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted Topic 842 using the updated modified retrospective transition approach allowed under ASU 2018-11 and did not restate prior periods.
The adoption of Topic 842 provided various optional practical expedients in transition, some of which we have elected.
Going forward, the impact of Topic 842 on the Company’s consolidated financial statements will be dependent upon the Company’s lease portfolio.
The accounting for finance leases (formerly referred to as “capital leases”) remains substantially unchanged.
Refer to Note 15 herein for further details regarding the impact of the adoption of Topic 842 and other information related to our lease portfolio.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, less than 5% of our net sales are recognized over time, as the associated contracts relate to the sale of goods with no alternative use as they are only sold to a single customer and whose underlying contract terms provide the Company with an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit margin, for performance completed to date, in the event of customer termination.
It is generally expected that a substantial portion of our remaining performance obligations will be fulfilled within three months, and nearly all of our performance obligations are part of contracts that have original durations of one year or less.
Net sales by geographic area are based on the customer location to which the product is shipped.
and markets a broad range of connector and connector systems, value-add products and other products, including antennas and sensors, used in a broad range of applications in a diverse set of end markets.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is classified below net income.
In addition, the equity attributable to noncontrolling interests is presented as a separate caption within equity.
Excluded from the computations above were anti-dilutive common shares of 6.3 million and nil for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company’s income before income taxes was reduced for stock-based compensation expense of $14.4 and $12.7, respectively.
Stock-based compensation expense includes the estimated effects of forfeitures, which are adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual forfeitures differ or are expected to differ from such estimates.
A committee of the Company’s Board of Directors has been authorized to grant stock options pursuant to the 2017 Employee Option Plan.
The Company also continues to maintain the 2009 Stock Purchase and Option Plan for Key Employees of Amphenol and Subsidiaries, as amended (the “2009 Employee Option Plan”).
No additional stock options will be granted under the 2009 Employee Option Plan.
The 2004 Directors Option Plan expired in May 2014, except that its terms continue with respect to any outstanding options granted thereunder.
Options were last granted under the 2004 Directors Option Plan in May 2011.
Options granted under the 2004 Directors Option Plan are fully vested and are generally exercisable over a period of ten years from the date of grant.


item2.txt



item3.txt
The Company may borrow under its Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Programs.


item4.txt
Beginning January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“Topic 842”) and its related subsequent amendments.


part2.txt
Item 1.


