fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $1.0 million will be paid out in cash through the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Specifically, the August round imposed a 25% tariff on integrated circuits and the September round imposed a 10% tariff on modules, which will rise to 25% in January 2019.
The capped call transactions have an initial strike price of approximately $13.49 and an initial cap price of approximately $15.27, in each case, subject to adjustment.
The Company’s 4.5% 2022 Senior Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs.
Pro forma results of operations of the acquired company have not been presented because the effect of the acquisition was not material.
recorded $0.2 million in loss on extinguishment and a reduction in additional paid-in capital of $25.7 million towards the deemed repurchase of the equity component of the notes.
The allowance for sales returns is reviewed quarterly to verify that it reflects the remaining obligations based on the anticipated returns over the balance of the obligation period.
In December 2017, the Company began implementation of a reduction in workforce (the "2017 Plan") which resulted in the elimination of approximately 80 positions worldwide across various functions.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company recorded a capital lease obligation of approximately $9.4 million.
Collectively, we refer to ASU No.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company purchases from, or sells to (a) entities for which one of the Company's directors or executive officers serves as a director or (b) entities that are otherwise affiliated with one of the Company's directors or executive officers (collectively, "related parties").
The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements that expire at various dates through fiscal 2022 and thereafter.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company purchases from, or sells to (a) entities for which one of the Company's directors or executive officers serves as a director or (b) entities that are otherwise affiliated with one of the Company's directors or executive officers (collectively, "related parties").
We do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed.
2014-09, its related amendments, and Subtopic 340-40 as "Topic 606."
We also rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to move our products between manufacturing plants and our customers’ facilities.
The allowance for sales returns is reviewed quarterly to verify that it reflects the remaining obligations based on the anticipated returns over the balance of the obligation period.
Amounts accrued as of September 30, 2018 were not material.


item2.txt
The carrying value of our investment in Enovix has been zero since December 31, 2017.
Our gross margin improved to 38.6% in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from 34.7% in the three months ended October 1, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to growth in revenue from the Flash memory products.
MPD revenue increased compared to the same nine-month period of the prior year primarily due to shift in product sales mix towards high density NOR product as well as increases in average selling price ("ASP") of NAND products.
•accretion of interest expense on Senior Exchangeable Notes and amortization of debt and financing costs on other debt of $20.0 million;


item3.txt
In December 2017, we entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements with two counterparties, starting from April 2018, to swap variable interest payments on our debt for fixed interest payments.


item4.txt
We maintain "disclosure controls and procedures," as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
These current and any future tariffs imposed by the U.S. on products assembled in China that we sell in the U.S. could negatively impact our U.S. sales.
We cannot be certain that these subcontractors will continue to assemble, package and test products for us on acceptable economic and quality terms or at all and it might be difficult for us to find alternatives if they do not do so.
For example, our sales were impacted in the second quarter of 2018 when the U.S. Department of Commerce banned U.S. companies from providing exports to ZTE, a Chinese telecoms equipment manufacturer (which ban was subsequently lifted in the third quarter of 2018) in an export controls case.


