We then select an appropriate method for measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligation, usually costs incurred to date relative to the total expected costs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation.
For the three months ended April 1, 2018, we are presenting comparative fiscal 2017 quarterly information.
On June 23, 2016, the Company issued, at face value, $287.5 million of Senior Exchangeable Notes due in 2022 (the “Notes”) in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (“Cypress” or the “Company”) reports on a fiscal-year basis.
These adjustment and allowances are accounted for as variable consideration.
The principal of the Notes and the estimated fair value of the principal as of April 1, 2018 were $150.0 million and $161.6 million, respectively.
Outstanding accounts receivable from one of the Company's distributors accounted for 28.0% of its consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.
The Company's 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs.
The Company recognizes derivative instruments from hedging activities as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measures them at fair value on a monthly basis.
Upon designation as cash flow hedge instruments, future changes in fair value of these swaps are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income.
These errors consisted primarily of errors in certain assumptions and calculations used in the determination of non-cash stock-based compensation primarily relating to the Employee Share Purchase Program (“ESPP”).
increase the transparency and improve comparability by requiring entities to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases, with certain exceptions.
For the three months ended April 1, 2018, the Company did not obtain any additional information affecting the provisional amount initially recorded at December 31, 2017.•our share in the net loss of equity method investees of $3.5 million.
The increase is primarily attributed to higher ASPs for Flash memory products and changes in product mix.
The increase is primarily attributed to higher ASPs for Flash memory products and changes in product mix.Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, certificates of deposit and corporate securities.