fls.txt



item1.txt
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined that our investment in Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca") was other-than temporarily impaired due to significant delays in Deca's commercialization and achievement of scalable production of certain key products, and consequently we recognized an impairment charge of $41.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to $65.1 million (the estimated fair value of our investment as of the end of fiscal 2018).
The Spansion Notes may be due and payable immediately upon certain events of default.
$23.85 per share multiplied by the applicable exchange or conversion rate as described above.
The objective of the swaps was to effectively fix the future interest rate at the level currently available to avoid the uncertainty in financing cost for a portion of debt due to future interest rate fluctuations.
Pursuant to the terms of the indenture governing the Spansion Notes (as amended, the "Spansion Notes Indenture"), a "fundamental change" includes a change in control, a liquidation, consolidation, or merger of the Company or a delisting of the Company’s common stock.
The Spansion Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company.
The capped call transactions have an initial strike price of approximately $13.49 and an initial cap price of approximately $15.27, in each case, subject to adjustment.
During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, the Company recognized a net gain of $1.9 million and an incremental loss of $1.7 million, respectively, mainly attributed to contingent consideration related to inventories, offset by adjustments in the carrying value of certain assets and reserves recorded for estimated costs of transition services.
Amounts accrued as of September 29, 2019 were not material.
The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for each of Infineon and the Company.
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones.
Gross unrecognized tax benefits were $131.9 million and $121.9 million as of September 29, 2019 and December 30, 2018, respectively.
on management’s assessment of the realizability of deferred tax assets, there was no change to the previously recorded valuation allowances during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019.
The Company’s 4.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022 are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs.
In addition, the Company entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements and has designated these swaps as hedging instruments.
Accordingly, the Company suspended the ESPP for all participants following the June 28, 2019, share purchase.
Take or pay terms obligate the Company to purchase a minimum required amount of materials or services or make specified payments in lieu of such purchase.
The Company may, at its sole discretion, extend the maturity for another six months to July 31, 2021.
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the amended Revolving Credit Facility, at the Effective Time, the Merger will trigger the change of control provision of the Revolving Credit Facility causing the debt to become payable immediately.
The Company's 2% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2020 assumed as part of the Company's merger with Spansion Inc. ("Spansion") are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and are categorized as Level 2.


item2.txt
•restructuring costs and other adjustments of $4.4 million; and
Our gross margin remained relatively flat in the nine months ended September 29, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The remainder of the decrease was primarily due to demand softening across our NOR flash, microcontroller and wireless connectivity businesses.
Cypress is committed to providing customers with quality support and engineering resources.
The decrease was primarily due to demand softening across our NOR flash and microcontroller businesses.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit.


item4.txt



part2.txt
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones.
Consequently, we recognized an additional impairment charge of $29.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to $28.6 million (the estimated fair value of our investment as of June 30, 2019).
Any exchange or conversion, as applicable, of the Spansion Notes or 2022 Notes may be settled in cash, shares of the Company’s common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the Company’s common stock, in each case at our election.


