Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in our consolidated balance sheets.
There have been no changes to the valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of the Company's assets and liabilities.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018, $450.0 million and $476.3 million aggregate principal amount of loans, which is related to Term Loan B, is outstanding under the Credit Facility, respectively.
The Spansion Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
In October 2018, the Company entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements starting in July 2021 with two counterparties to swap future variable interest payments on existing debt for fixed interest payments; these agreements will expire in December 2024.
The restructuring charge of $90.1 million recorded for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2016 primarily consists of severance costs, lease termination costs and impairment of property, plant and equipment.
On April 1, 2019, the Company closed the transfer of its NAND business to a newly-formed joint venture between the Company and SK hynix system ic ("SKHS").
The Company does not enter into derivative securities for speculative purposes.
As of March 31, 2019, the carrying value of our investment in Deca was $61.6 million.
The maximum original duration of any contract allowable under the Company’s hedging policy is thirteen months for foreign currency hedging contracts.
Some foreign currency forward contracts are considered to be economic hedges that were not designated as hedging instruments while others were designated as cash flow hedges.
The Company has operating and finance leases for corporate offices, research and development facilities, and certain equipment.Our Revolving Credit Facility has a capacity of $540 million which was undrawn as of March 31, 2019.
We held 52.5% of Deca's outstanding voting shares as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018.
Deca continues to be in the process of developing and testing a fan-out wafer level packaging technology.Please see Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the hedge contracts.During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones.