fls.txt



item1.txt
Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Cypress" or the "Company") reports on a fiscal-year basis.
As of June 30, 2019, approximately 29.6 million stock options, or 15.9 million RSUs and PSUs, were available for grant as stock-based awards under the 2013 Stock Plan, the 2010 Equity Incentive Award Plan and the 2012 Incentive Award Plan.
Based on an analysis carried out in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $76.6 million which related to the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to the NAND business.
Cash amounts for the remaining RSUs and all PSUs outstanding at the closing will generally be payable, subject to continued employment with the surviving corporation, according to the Cypress award’s original vesting schedule (subject to acceleration in certain circumstances).
These elections are applied consistently for all leases.
The Company's segments are MCD (Microcontroller and Connectivity Division) and MPD (Memory Products Division).
On April 1, 2019, the Company closed the transfer of its NAND business to a newly-formed joint venture between the Company and SK hynix system ic Inc. ("SKHS").
The Company records changes in the intrinsic value of its cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, until the forecasted transaction occurs.
Deca's management is currently in the process of evaluating certain strategic alternatives.
As of June 30, 2019, the carrying value of our investment in Deca was $28.6 million.
Pursuant to the terms of the Spansion Notes Indenture, a fundamental change will not be deemed to have occurred in the case of a person or group becoming the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company’s common stock or in the case of a liquidation, consolidation or merger of the Company if, in either case, 90% of the consideration paid in such transaction consists of shares of common equity traded on The New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq.
The allowance for sales returns is reviewed quarterly to verify that it reflects the remaining obligations based on the anticipated returns over the balance of the obligation period.
This cash dividend was paid on July 18, 2019 and totaled $40.3 million which was accrued for and shown as "Dividends payable" on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2019.
Revenue from sales to two of the Company’s distributors accounted for 19.1% and 13.1% of its consolidated revenues for the six months ended July 1, 2018.
The following tables present the Company's revenue disaggregated by segment, end use, revenue type and geographical locations.
On April 1, 2019, the Company closed the transfer of its NAND business to a newly-formed joint venture between the Company and SK hynix system ic Inc. ("SKHS").
The terms of the subleases range from one to eight years, payments are fixed within the contracts, and there are no residual value guarantees or other restrictions or covenants in the leases.
The Company has entered into agreements with certain vendors that include "take or pay" terms.
The terms of the subleases range from one to eight years, payments are fixed within the contracts, and there are no residual value guarantees or other restrictions or covenants in the leases.


item2.txt
As discussed in Note 1, we adopted ASC Topic 842 on December 31, 2018.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we recorded a $29.5 million impairment charge for the equity-method investment in Deca Technologies, Inc. ("Deca").
The carrying value of our investment in Deca was $28.6 million and $65.1 million as of June 30, 2019 and December 30, 2018, respectively.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we recorded a $29.5 million impairment charge for the equity-method investment in Deca Technologies, Inc. ("Deca").
The decrease was primarily due to a decline in demand for NAND flash and NOR flash products, and the divestiture of our NAND flash business, which was completed on April 1, 2019.


item3.txt
We do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones.
We therefore face a risk that our investment might not generate meaningful cash flows to re-invest, for example, in higher-margin areas of our business.
Failure to secure such funding, if needed, will impact its ability to continue as a going concern.


