Amounts accrued at July 1, 2018 were not material.
These adjustments and allowances are accounted for as variable consideration.
No restructuring charges were recorded for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 or July 2, 2017, related to the Spansion Integration Plan.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18 Restricted Cash, which requires amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents to be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the total beginning and ending amounts for the periods shown on the statement of cash flows.
It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these agreements due to the conditional nature of the Company's obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
On August 15, 2016, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by the California Institute of Technology ("Caltech") against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California (Case No.
The capped call transactions have an initial strike price of approximately $13.49 and an initial cap price of approximately $15.27, in each case, subject to adjustment.
As of July 1, 2018, approximately 38.4 million stock options, or 21.6 million RSUs and PSUs were available for grant as stock-based awards under the 2013 Stock Plan, the 2010 Equity Incentive Award Plan (formerly the Spansion 2010 Equity Incentive Award Plan) and the 2012 Incentive Award Plan (formerly the Ramtron Plan).
We then select an appropriate method for measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligation, usually costs incurred to date relative to the total expected costs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation.
The Company generally warrants its products against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of one year, and that product warranty is generally limited to a refund of the original purchase price of the product or a replacement part.
We then select an appropriate method for measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligation, usually costs incurred to date relative to the total expected costs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation.The increase is primarily attributed to higher ASPs for Flash memory products and changes in product mix.
Revenues recorded by MCD increased by $8.0 million, or 2.2%, in the three months ended July 1, 2018 compared to the same prior year period.
Cypress is committed to providing customers with the best support and development resources enabling them to disrupt markets by creating new product categories in record time.We also hedge a percentage of our forecasted revenue denominated in Japanese yen with foreign currency forward contracts.If market demand for our products exceeds our internal manufacturing capacity and available capacity from our foundry partners, we may seek additional foundry manufacturing arrangements.