The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, Regulation S-X.
The January 28, 2018 consolidated balance sheet was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018, as filed with the SEC, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates.
Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products.
As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed.
For such arrangements, we allocate revenue to the software license and PCS on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the standalone selling price for each performance obligation.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update that creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies, in all industries.
In February 2016 and July 2018, the FASB issued accounting standards updates regarding the accounting for leases by which we will begin recognizing lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for lease terms of more than 12 months.This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
While our GPU and CUDA architecture is unified, our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users.
GPU business revenue was $2.77 billion, up 25% from a year earlier and up 4% sequentially, reflecting growth in professional visualization, datacenter, and gaming GPUs.
Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes automotive, SOC modules for the Nintendo Switch gaming console, and other embedded edge AI platforms - was $407 million, down 3% from a year ago and down 13% sequentially.
Gaming revenue was $1.76 billion, up 13% from a year ago driven by growth in gaming GPUs, and down 2% sequentially as gaming GPU growth was more than offset by a seasonal decline in SOC modules for Nintendo Switch.
Professional visualization revenue was $305 million, up 28% from a year earlier and up 9% sequentially driven by strength across both desktop and mobile workstation products.
Datacenter revenue was $792 million, up 58% from a year ago and up 4% sequentially, led by strong sales of our Volta architecture-based products, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems, with contribution from the new Turing T4 Cloud GPU.Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018.