We are presently engaged in various legal actions arising in the normal course of business.
For additional information about our material legal proceedings, please see Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies, of the accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A.
Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2018 (the "Form 10-K"), each of which could materially affect our business, financial position, or future results of operations.
Except as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors included in the Form 10-K.
The failure to successfully integrate the business and operations of Polycom in the expected time frame and achieve the expected synergies may adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company.
The actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses or delays, distract management from other revenue or acquisition opportunities, and increase the combined company’s expenses and working capital requirements, particularly in the short-term.
As a result, upon completion of the acquisition we increased our indebtedness in an amount materially greater than our historical indebtedness.
In addition, our failure to comply with the covenants could result in a default under the Credit Agreement and our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt or demand payment in exchange for a waiver of such default.
If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt as due.
We enter into interest rate hedging transactions that reduce, but do not mitigate, the impact of unfavorable changes in interest rates.
There is no guarantee that our hedging efforts will be effective or, if effective in one period will continue to remain effective in future periods.
In addition, the mandatory debt repayment schedule of the Credit Agreement and the maturity our existing 5.50% Senior Notes in 2023 may negatively impact our cash position and further reduce our financial flexibility.
Furthermore, any changes by rating agencies to our credit rating in connection with such indebtedness may negatively impact the value and liquidity of our debt and equity securities.
We have significant manufacturing, assembly and packaging operations in Mexico and rely on third party manufacturers located outside of U.S., and a significant amount of our revenues are generated internationally, each of which subjects our business to risks of international operations.
We own and operate a manufacturing facility in Tijuana, Mexico, which is responsible for assembly of a significant portion of our Enterprise products from materials and components sourced from various suppliers in Asia and North America, and other suppliers.
Additionally, our Tijuana facility is primarily responsible for the packaging and final processing of most of our Consumer products after manufacturing and assembly by third parties, many of which are located in Asia, China in particular.
Also, we generate a significant amount of our revenues from foreign customers.
•Compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom's Bribery Act.
Additionally, recently announced tariffs by the United States will, if implemented as currently proposed, levy tariffs on products, including those incorporating Bluetooth technology that are manufactured in China.
A portion of our Consumer and Enterprise products contain Bluetooth technology and a number of our accessory products are manufactured in China.
If implemented in their currently proposed form, the tariffs are expected to have a materially adverse impact on the profitability of our Consumer category.
importing our products.
Alternatively, if we deem it necessary to alter all or a portion of our domestic and international activities in response to such legislation or executive actions, our capital and operating costs may increase, possibly substantially.
As a consequence of our acquisition of Polycom, Inc. on July 2, 2018, we issued shares of our common stock to Triangle Private Holdings II, LLC ("Triangle"), an entity indirectly controlled by Siris Capital Group, LLC ("Siris"), equivalent to approximately 16% of our issued and outstanding shares, which made Triangle our largest single stockholder.
The interests of Triangle, Siris and its other affiliated entities and individuals may differ from the interests of other holders of our common stock.
Triangle will be permitted to sell up to one-third of the shares issued pursuant to the acquisition on July 2, 2019, up to two-thirds of their shares beginning on January 2, 2020 and all of the shares after July 2, 2020.
The average daily trading volume of our stock is limited, and any resale of the shares held by Triangle will increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading, which may depress the price of our stock.
Additionally, the sale by Triangle or their successors of all or a substantial portion of the shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could impact the price of our common stock.
The risks described here and on the Form 10-K are not the only risks we face.
On July 27, 2017 the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase 1,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time in the market or in privately negotiated repurchases as determined by management.
"Average Price Paid per Share" reflects open market repurchases of common stock only.
