You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2018 (the "Form 10-K"), and Part II, "Risk Factors" in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 ended June 30, 2018, filed with the SEC on August 7, 2018, each of which could materially affect our business, financial position, or future results of operations. Except as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors included in the Form 10-K. 
As a result of our acquisition of Polycom on July 2, 2018, the amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet and subject to future impairment testing increased substantially from $15.5 million at the end of fiscal year 2018 to more than $2.2 billion as of the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of assets acquired in business combinations. Goodwill impairment analysis and measurement requires significant judgment on the part of management and may be impacted by a wide variety of factors both within and beyond our control.
We are required to annually test goodwill to determine if impairment has occurred, either through a quantitative or qualitative analysis. Additionally, interim reviews must be performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period the determination is made. We cannot accurately predict the amount or timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of our goodwill become impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and could result in our incurring potentially significant net losses in future periods.
On July 27, 2017 the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase 1,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time in the market or in privately negotiated repurchases as determined by management.
"Average Price Paid per Share" reflects open market repurchases of common stock only.
Plantronics, Inc.
