We are presently engaged in various legal actions arising in the normal course of business.
For additional information about our material legal proceedings, please see Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies, of the accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A.
Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2017 (the "Form 10-K"), each of which could materially affect our business, financial position, or future results of operations.
Except as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors included in the Form 10-K.
Changes in applicable tax regulations and resolutions of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”).
The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex.
As rule making bodies and new legislation is enacted to interpret the Tax Act, these changes may adjust the estimates provided in this report.
The changes may possibly be material, due to, among other things, the Treasury Department’s promulgation of regulations and guidance that interpret the Tax Act, corrective technical legislative amendments that may change the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates the company has utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates and foreign exchange rates of foreign subsidiaries.
In addition, it is uncertain how each country where we do business may react to the Tax Act.
As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted.
The risks described here and on the Form 10-K are not the only risks we face.
