fls.txt
of the Tax Reform Act (including our effective income rate going forward).


item1.txt
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.


item2.txt
We are one of the world’s largest and most established business support solutions (“BSS”) providers, primarily serving some of the most well-known communications, information, and content companies around the globe.
We help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape, bringing more than thirty-five years of experience supporting the world’s most respected service providers.
We make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter as they work to evolve their businesses from a single-product offering to highly complex and competitive multi-product offerings, while also requiring increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences for their customers.
We offer BSS and revenue management, customer experience and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
We generate approximately 70% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, logistics, and transportation.
As discussed in Note 2 to our Financial Statements, in January 2018 we adopted ASU 606, a single comprehensive model which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP, utilizing the cumulative effect approach.
Under the new guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
In conjunction with the adoption of this ASU, we recorded a cumulative adjustment increasing beginning retained earnings (net of tax) by approximately $7 million, primarily related to contracts that we were required to defer revenue as we did not have VSOE for certain undelivered elements.
Certain deferred contract costs that had been included in our client contracts and other current and non-current assets on our Balance Sheet were reclassified and presented separately as a non-current client contract asset, net of related amortization.
Investments in client contracts on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows have been reclassified to operating activities from investing activities.
As discussed in Note 5 to the Financial Statements, on February 28, 2017 we acquired Business Ink, a multi-channel communications company based in Austin, Texas, for approximately $70 million, excluding acquisition-related expenses.
For the first quarter of 2018, Business Ink contributed $5.2 million of cloud and related solutions revenues and was neutral to our results of operations for the quarter when factoring in acquired amortization expense.
At this time, for the full year 2018 we expect that Business Ink will contribute approximately $50 million of revenue for the ten months of 2018 and decrease our results of operations by approximately 5%.
The expected impact of the Business Ink acquisition includes estimates for certain integration-related expenses and estimates for the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
Operating income for the first quarter of 2018 was $25.8 million, or a 12.8% operating income margin percentage, compared to $27.0 million, or a 14.0% operating income margin percentage for the first quarter of 2017, with the decreases in operating income and operating income margin percentage mainly attributed to the $2.4 million of Business Ink acquisition-related costs.
As of March 31, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $222.1 million, as compared $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our largest clients, which are Comcast, Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”), and DISH Network Corporation (“DISH”).
See our 2017 10-K for additional discussion of our business relationships and contractual terms with Comcast, Charter, and DISH.
The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.


item4.txt
As required by Rule 13a-15(b), our management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e).


