fls.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.


item1.txt
From time-to-time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business.


item2.txt
We are one of the world’s largest and most established business support solutions (“BSS”) providers, primarily serving some of the most well-known communications, information, and content companies around the globe.
We help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape, bringing more than thirty-five years of experience supporting the world’s most respected service providers.
We make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter as they work to evolve their businesses from a single-product offering to highly complex and competitive multi-product offerings, while also requiring increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences for their customers.
We offer BSS and revenue management, customer experience and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
We generate approximately 70% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, logistics, and transportation.
As discussed in Note 2 to our Financial Statements, in January 2018 we adopted ASU 606, a single comprehensive model which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP, utilizing the cumulative effect approach.
Under the new guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
In conjunction with the adoption of this ASU, we recorded a cumulative adjustment increasing beginning retained earnings (net of tax) by approximately $7 million, primarily related to contracts that we were required to defer revenue as we did not have VSOE for certain undelivered elements.
Certain deferred contract costs that had been included in our client contracts and other current and non-current assets on our Balance Sheet were reclassified and presented separately as a non-current client contract asset, net of related amortization.
As discussed in Note 5 to the Financial Statements, on February 28, 2017 we acquired Business Ink, a multi-channel communications company based in Austin, Texas, for approximately $70 million, excluding acquisition-related expenses.
For the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2018, Business Ink contributed cloud and related solutions revenues of $15.7 million and $21.0 million, respectively, of and was slightly dilutive to our results of operations when factoring in acquired amortization expense.
Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
Operating income for the second quarter of 2018 was $24.1 million, or an 11.3% operating income margin percentage, compared to $24.2 million, or a 12.6% operating income margin percentage for the second quarter of 2017, with the decrease in operating margin reflective of costs associated with the integration of Business Ink and the continued increase in planned investments aimed at generating future long-term growth in our business.
Diluted EPS for the second quarter of 2018 was $0.46 compared to $0.35 for the second quarter of 2017, with the increase mainly attributed a lower effective income tax rate, primarily resulting from the U.S. Tax Reform enacted in December 2017.
As of June 30, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $186.4 million, as compared to $222.1 million as of March 31, 2018 and $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017.
Our cash flows from operating activities for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 were $(3.6) million, which were negatively impacted by an increase in accounts receivable primarily related to the timing around a recurring client payment that was delayed at quarter-end.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our largest clients, which are Comcast, Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”), and DISH Network Corporation (“DISH”).
The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.
Variability in quarterly revenues and operating results are inherent characteristics of companies that sell software licenses and perform professional services.
The effective income tax rates for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2018 reflect the impact of the Tax Reform Act that was passed into legislation in December 2017.


item3.txt
The interest rate on our 2016 Convertible Notes is fixed, and thus, as it relates to our convertible debt borrowings, we are not exposed to changes in interest rates.
The interest rates under our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
Certain of our cash balances are “swept” into overnight money market accounts on a daily basis, and at times, any excess funds are invested in low-risk, somewhat longer term, cash equivalent instruments and short-term investments.


item4.txt
As required by Rule 13a-15(b), our management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e).


