We are one of the world’s leading revenue management and digital monetization, customer experience, and payment solutions providers, and a trusted partner to some of the most well-known communications, media, and entertainment companies around the globe.
We leverage more than 35 years of experience to help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape.
Drawing from real-world knowledge and unparalleled expertise, we design and implement business solutions that make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter so they can focus on evolving their businesses to provide highly sophisticated and competitive multi-product offerings while also delivering increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences that meet the ever-changing demands of their customers across all stages of the customer lifecycle.
We offer revenue management, customer experience, and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
We generate approximately 60% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, healthcare, logistics, and transportation.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASC 842”), which requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for all leases, including operating leases, with a term greater than twelve months on its balance sheet.
Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
Revenues for the second quarter of 2019 were $245.9 million, a 15% increase when compared to revenues of $213.0 million for the second quarter of 2018, with the increase mainly attributed to the additional revenues generated from the acquisition of Forte on October 1, 2018, and the continued growth in our cloud solutions and managed service arrangements.
Operating income for the second quarter of 2019 was $30.3 million, or a 12.3% operating margin percentage, compared to $24.1 million, or an 11.3% operating margin percentage for the second quarter of 2018.
As of June 30, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $131.5 million, as compared to $141.9 million as of March 31, 2019 and $162.9 million as of December 31, 2018.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our two largest clients, which are Comcast and Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”).
In November 2018, Comcast exercised the first of their two one-year renewal options extending the term of their agreement through June 30, 2020.