fls.txt
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences (“Cautionary Statements”) include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1. Business — “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in the Company’s Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which are incorporated by reference into this Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
Based upon this evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective and have not changed since its most recent annual report.
During the quarter ended March 31, 2019, the Company employed a third party valuation firm to assist in determining the preliminary purchase price allocation of assets and liabilities acquired from Seller.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or other valuation techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.
We believe by acquiring VWP, we have significantly strengthened our webcasting product and Platform id.
The increase is due to amortization of intangible assets acquired in both the VWP and FSCwire acquisitions.
Managing the capitalization table of a public company or pre-IPO company is a cornerstone of corporate governance and transparency, and as such companies and community banks have chosen us to assist with their stock transfer needs, including bond offerings and dividend management.
 No customers accounted for more than 10% of the revenues during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 or 2018.
In connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed two short-term leases associated with an office and co-location for certain computer equipment in New York City, New York as well as entered into a three-year office lease in Florida.
The associated deferred revenue is generally recognized ratably over the billing period.
The ACCESSWIRE product offering focuses on press release distribution for both private and publicly held companies globally.
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited financial statements.
Additionally, we continue to attempt to migrate the install base over to subscriptions of our digital outreach engagement module within Platform id.
We believe we have the product sets, platforms and capacity to meet their requirements.
A majority of the increase is due to the acquisitions of VWP and FSCwire, which accounted for a combined $509,000 of Platform and Technology revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Level 2 – Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Revenue recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of each reporting period, was approximately $690,000 and $488,000, respectively.
VWP allows customers to create, produce and deliver events, which we believe will integrate well into Platform id.
Goodwill is an asset representing the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized.
The transition to a subscription model has been and will continue to be key for the long-term sustainable growth management expects from our new platforms.
Our cash and cash equivalents are quoted at Level 1.
For the Florida lease, which was signed on January 4, 2019, we recognized a ROU asset and corresponding lease liability of $125,000, which represents the present value of minimum lease payments discounted at 4.25%, the Company’s incremental borrowing rate at lease inception.
This lease expires on October 31, 2019 and as of January 1, 2019, we had remaining minimum lease payments of $135,000.
The new lease, which is scheduled to commence at the later of the date tenant improvements are completed (as defined in the lease) or August 1, 2019, is for 9,766 square feet and has a term of eight years and four months.
Additionally, as a commitment to broadening the reach of our webcast platform, all events are broadcast live within our shareholder outreach module, which helps drive new audiences and give companies the ability to view their analytics and engagement of each event.
 The Company has elected not to provide unaudited pro forma financial information for the FSCwire acquisition, because the acquisition was not considered a significant acquisition in accordance with Rule 3-05 of the SEC's Regulation S-X.
Significant estimates include the allowance for doubtful accounts and the valuation of goodwill, intangible assets, deferred tax assets, and stock-based compensation.
 Services revenue increased $16,000, or 1%, to $1,514,000 during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $1,498,000 during the same period of 2018.


