Such partnerships should yield increased exposure to a targeted customer base that could impact our revenue and overall brand in the market.
The increases in amortization expense represents 6% of Platform and Technology revenue for each respective period.
The statements contained in this Form10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27a of the Securities Act and Section 21e of the Exchange Act.
Our ACCESSWIRE® news business offering represented a majority of the year over year growth in our Platform and Technology revenue during 2017 and continues to lead our transition to a full platform solution.
The transition to a subscription model has been and will continue to be key for the long-term sustainable growth management expects from our new platforms.
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for working capital and general corporate purposes and may also use a portion of the net proceeds to in-license, acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, technologies or assets.
Issuer Direct's principal platform, Platform id.™, empowers users by thoughtfully integrating the most relevant tools, technologies and products, thus eliminating the complexity associated with producing and distributing their business communications and financial information.
Such partnerships should yield increased exposure to a targeted customer base that could impact our revenue and overall brand in the market.
Lastly, additional transfer agent module revenue, primarily due to the addition of Interwest customers, as well as additional webcasting revenue as a result of offering our webcasting product to investor relations conferences contributed to the overall increase in our Platform and Technology revenue.
Revenue from customers obtained from acquisitions of Interwest and FSCwire totaled $526,000 and $1,325,000 during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, of which $46,000 and $142,000 came from additional subscriptions to our platform or services cross sold to those customers.
 As part of our Platform and Technology strategy, we have been working with several select stock exchanges, whereby we make available certain parts of our platform, under agreement, to integrate our offerings.
Also contributing to the growth in the percentage of Platform and Technology revenue is our focus on our platform first engagement strategy and converting customers which historically relied on us for services work to utilizing Platform id.
Certain of these capabilities were historically part of our disclosure management and shareholder communications offerings, but are now included into our fully integrated platform.
The aggregate gross proceeds of the offering were $14,375,000.
 We believe there is significant demand for our products among the middle, small and micro-cap markets globally, as they seek to find better platforms and tools to disseminate and communicate their respective messages.
This API license will allow publishers to query an industry or a single companies' current and past earnings calls and present those webcasts on their platforms, under a subscription to Platform id.
In addition, the Company granted the underwriter a 30-day option to purchase an additional 120,967 shares of its common stock to cover over-allotments, which were sold on August 24, 2018. ITEM 1.