The accompanying financial data as of January 27, 2018 and for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017 has been prepared by the Company, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 29, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2017.
The Company consolidates its investments in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and its affiliates (“SOFTBANK”) as this is a variable interest entity and the Company is the primary beneficiary.
SOFTBANK’s share of the earnings in the venture fund are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of January 27, 2018; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017; the statements of cash flows and equity for the six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017, as applicable, have been made.
The results of operations for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full fiscal year or any future periods.
Share-Based Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that impacts the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.We experienced solid revenue growth in Security and Applications and modest growth in Infrastructure Platforms, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
Total gross margin increased by 0.3 percentage points, driven by productivity improvements and favorable product mix partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing.
We had a net loss of $8.8 billion and a net loss per share of $1.78, primarily due to the $11.1 billion provisional tax expense related to the Tax Act, comprised of $9.0 billion U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax, and $0.9 billion of net deferred tax assets re-measurement.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $344 million, driven in large part by product revenue growth in the United States.
The “BRICM” countries experienced product revenue growth of 2% in the aggregate, driven by increased product revenue in the emerging countries of China, Russia and Brazil of 8%, 17% and 11%, respectively, partially offset by product revenue declines in India and Mexico of 11% and 4%, respectively.Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities that remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.