The accompanying financial data as of April 28, 2018 and for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017 has been prepared by the Company, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 29, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2017.
The Company consolidates its investments in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and its affiliates (“SOFTBANK”) as this is a variable interest entity and the Company is the primary beneficiary.
SOFTBANK’s share of the earnings in the venture fund are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of April 28, 2018; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017; the statements of cash flows and equity for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, as applicable, have been made.
Share-Based Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that impacts the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
This resulted in an overall decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 due to recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.We remain focused on accelerating innovation across our portfolio, and we believe that we have made continued progress on our strategic priorities.
Our product revenue reflected growth in Infrastructure Platforms, Applications and Security, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $115 million, EMEA revenue increased by $282 million, and revenue in our APJC segment increased by $126 million.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced solid product revenue growth in the commercial market and to a lesser extent in the enterprise and public sector markets.
From a product category perspective, the product revenue increase of 5% was driven by a 2% product revenue increase in Infrastructure Platforms and solid product revenue growth in Applications and Security, which grew by 19% and 11%, respectively.Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities that remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.