fls.txt



item1.txt
For leases with a term of 12 months or less, the lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset to not recognize an asset and corresponding liability.
The acquisition is not considered material as assets acquired are less than 5% of the Company’s total consolidated assets.
At March 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.
An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
The LTIP permitted and now the Incentive Plan permits the grant of 100,000 options to buy common shares of the Company to certain employees at not less than fair market value of the shares on the date of grant.
Unvested performance-based awards will vest on a target potential payout.
No contributions were made to the Plan during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The Company also applied the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components to new leases as well as existing leases through transition.
At March 31, 2019, the Company’s Australian subsidiary had borrowed $6.4 million U.S. dollars, also with a term expiring June 30, 2021.
Noncurrent inventory is included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The line of credit agreement contains, among other provisions, requirements for maintaining levels of net worth and profitability.
The Company credits earnings, gains and losses to the participants’ deferred compensation account balances based on the investments selected by the participants.
The Company utilizes historical data in determining these assumptions.
The Company is currently evaluating what impact its adoption, effective January 1, 2020, will have to the presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
5 to Amended and Restated Loan Agreement dated April 25, 2019 between the Company and PNC Bank, National Association.
Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented.
Both the asset and liability will initially be measured at the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
The acquisition of MICOS Telcom will strengthen the Company’s position in the global telecom market and will also expand its operational presence in Europe.


item2.txt
The Americas costs and expenses of $3.0 million increased $.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to a $.3 million net loss on foreign currency transactional exchange, higher salary related expense of $.1 million combined with increased professional fees of $.1 million.
The following discussion of costs and expenses excludes the effect of currency translation.
Other income (expense).
Those factors described under the heading “Risk Factors” on page 11 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed on March 8, 2019.
EMEA costs and expenses of $4.1 million increased $.6 million mainly due to an increase in personnel related expenses of $.3 million, higher professional fees of $.1 million and a $.1 million incremental loss in net foreign currency exchange effect.
A $.4 million, or 21%, net decrease resulting from U.S. permanent items, primarily related to tax benefits related to stock-based compensation.
International net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 experienced an unfavorable impact of $4.8 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars.
Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $97.2 million decreased $1.0 million, or 1.0%, compared to 2018.
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947.


item3.txt
The Company believes that the political and economic risks related to the Company’s international operations are mitigated due to the geographic diversity in which the Company’s international operations are located.


item4.txt



part2.txt
There were no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 8, 2019.


