fls.txt



item1.txt
The RSUs are offered at no cost to the employees.
At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the cash surrender value of the COLI was $5.3 million and $2.8 million, respectively, and is recorded in Other assets on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.
The remaining purchase price was allocated to other long-term liabilities, net of long-term assets.
The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs.
At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the cash surrender value of the COLI was $5.3 million and $2.8 million, respectively, and is recorded in Other assets on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.
The acquisition of MICOS Telcom will strengthen the Company’s position in the global telecom market and will also expand its operational presence in Europe.
The Company credits earnings, gains and losses to the participants’ deferred compensation account balances based on the investments selected by the participants.
The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs.
There were no options granted for either of the six-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
Assets of the rabbi trust are consolidated, and the value of the Company’s common shares held in the rabbi trust is classified in Shareholders’ equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock.
At June 30, 2019, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.
In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the LTIP and the Incentive Plan), vesting of the RSUs will be accelerated and all restrictions will lapse.
The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs.
The Company also applied the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components to new leases as well as existing leases through transition.
Dividends declared are accrued in cash.
Assets of the rabbi trust are consolidated, and the value of the Company’s common shares held in the rabbi trust is classified in Shareholders’ equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock.
Compensation expense related to the time-based RSUs for the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2019 was $.1 million and $.2 million, respectively.


item2.txt
The most significant net investing and financing uses of Cash in the six months ended June, 2019 were payments of long-term debt of $25.6 million, Cash used to fund the acquisition of SubCon and MICOS Telcom of $19.0 million, capital expenditures of $12.0 million, share repurchases of $3.8 million and dividends paid of $2.2 million, partially offset by net debt and notes payable proceeds of $56.2 million.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
The line of credit agreement contains, among other provisions, requirements for maintaining levels of net worth and funded debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization along with an interest coverage ratio.
PLP-USA’s net income for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased $2.4 million compared to the same period in 2018 due to an increase in operating income of $3.4 million, partially offset by an increase in income taxes of $1.0 million.
The overall demand for cable anchoring and control hardware for electrical transmission and distribution lines on a worldwide basis, which has a slow growth rate in mature markets such as the U.S., Canada, Australia and Western Europe and may grow slowly or experience prolonged delay in developing regions despite expanding power needs;
On a consolidated basis, costs and expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2019 were favorably impacted by $1.0 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars.
Costs and expenses of $51.9 million increased $2.3 million compared to 2018 which included a favorable impact from currency translation of $2.7 million.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
We evaluate segment performance and allocate resources based on several factors primarily based on sales and net income.
A $.3 million, or 3%, net increase resulting from higher U.S. permanent items primarily related to limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation
EMEA net sales of $22.6 million increased $2.6 million, or 12%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales within the region, including incremental sales from the newly acquired businesses.


item3.txt
The remeasurement impact to the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2019 was immaterial and is included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Company believes the claims against it are without merit and intends to vigorously defend against such claims.


