fls.txt



item1.txt
As all stock options from the 1999 Stock Option Plan had been fully vested and exercised, the Company recorded no compensation expense related to stock options for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2019, the Intangible assets of $3.5 million were included in Goodwill.
On July 2, 2019, the Company purchased 952 shares of the Company from a retired Officer at a price per share of $51.20, which was calculated from a 30-day average market price in connection with the vesting of equity awards.
The Intangible assets included in the acquisition of MICOS have useful lives of 15 years.
Inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means.
At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the cash surrender value of the COLI was $5.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively, and is recorded in Other assets on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” The amendments in this update require the recognition of assets and liabilities arising from lease transactions on the balance sheet and the disclosure of key information about leasing arrangements.
The RSUs are offered at no cost to the employees.
Shares issued as a result of stock option exercises will be funded with the issuance of new shares.
The liability for this unfunded Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan was $5.3 million at September 30, 2019 and $4.9 million at December 31, 2018.
For both of the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, no stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as there was no anti-dilutive effect.
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
The fair value of RSUs is based on the market price of a common share on the grant date and the shares underlying the awards are not issued until they vest.
Inputs to the valuation methodology are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
An entity is permitted to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of the ASU and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until the effective date.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2019, the Intangible assets of $3.5 million were included in Goodwill.
Noncurrent inventory is included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.


item2.txt
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947.
The Americas costs and expenses of $10.1 million increased $.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to a year-over-year increase in personnel-related expenses.
The following discussion of net income excludes the effect of currency translation.
Significant factors affecting the management of liquidity are cash flows from operating activities, capital expenditures, cash dividends, business acquisitions and access to bank lines of credit.
Asia-Pacific net income increased $.7 million as a result of a $1.6 million increase in operating income, partially offset by an increase in net interest expense of $.3 million combined with an increase in income tax expense of $.6 million.
A $.9 million, or 12%, net decrease resulting from the final calculation of the Transition Tax.
The following discussion of gross profit excludes the effects of currency translation.
The $13.6 million increase was primarily a result of a decrease in Cash usage for operating assets (net of operating liabilities) of $16.7 million, which included a reduction resulting from the $5.3 million contribution to the pension plan in 2018, partially offset by a decrease in net income of $3.6 million and an increase in non-cash items of $.5 million.
The following discussion of gross profit excludes the effects of currency translation.
The following discussion of costs and expenses excludes the effect of currency translation.


item3.txt
The Company believes that the political and economic risks related to the Company’s international operations are mitigated due to the geographic diversity in which the Company’s international operations are located.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


