fls.txt



item1.txt
At March 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.
The Company and its subsidiaries, Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the “Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).
The company then credits earnings, gains and losses to the participants’ deferred compensation account balances based on the investments selected by the participants.
No significant changes to the valuation allowances were reflected for the period ended March 31, 2018.
The deferred compensation plan allows the Directors to elect to receive Director fees in common shares of the Company at a later date instead of fees paid each quarter in cash.
Assets of the rabbi trust are consolidated, and the value of the Company’s common shares held in the rabbi trust is classified in Shareholders’ equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock.
Accordingly, a lessee will recognize a lease asset for its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability for the corresponding lease obligation.
The Company’s effective tax rate was 28% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
Inputs to the valuation methodology are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
The Company anticipates contributing $.5 million of additional funding to the Plan during the second quarter of 2018.
Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented.
The Company records and accounts for its warranty reserve based on specific claim incidents.
The following tables present a summary of the Company’s reportable segments for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
The Company then compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value to assess if goodwill has been impaired.
The total compensation cost related to nonvested awards not yet recognized at March 31, 2018 is expected to be less than $.1 million over a weighted-average period of approximately 1.7 years.
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the “Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).
ASU 2014-09 requires an entity to recognize revenue in a matter that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.


item2.txt
The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment.
On March 13, 2018, we extended the term on our $65 million credit facility from June 30, 2019 to June 30, 2021.
We measure liquidity on the basis of our ability to meet short-term and long-term operating needs, repay debt, fund additional investments, including acquisitions, and make dividend payments to shareholders.
The Americas net income increased $1.3 million as a result of a $3.1 million increase in operating income, partially offset by higher income taxes of $.8 million.
The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment.
The Americas net income increased $1.3 million as a result of a $3.1 million increase in operating income, partially offset by higher income taxes of $.8 million.
All other terms remain the same, including the interest rate at LIBOR plus 1.125% unless our funded debt to Earnings before Interest, Taxes and Depreciation ratio exceeds 2.25 to 1, then the LIBOR spread becomes 1.500%.
The Americas costs and expenses of $3.5 million increased $.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to higher salary related expense of $.2 million.
In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $24.1 million increased $3.7 million, or 13%, compared to 2017 primarily due to a sales volume increase in formed wire and hardware related products.


item3.txt
A 100 basis point increase in the interest rate would have resulted in an increase in interest expense of approximately $.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Company believes the claims against it are without merit and intends to vigorously defend against such claims.


