The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three months ended May 5, 2018, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2018 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
The Company's financial results for prior periods presented herein have been recast to reflect certain businesses that were classified as discontinued operations during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017 and second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
On November 19, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”), pursuant to which a subsidiary of the Company will merge with and into Cavium, with Cavium surviving and becoming a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger").
The Merger is primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions.
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Company will issue 2.1757 common shares and pay $40.00 per share in cash, without interest, for each share of Cavium common stock.
The Company intends to fund the cash consideration with a combination of cash on hand from the combined companies and $1.75 billion in debt financing.
The Company has obtained commitments consisting of an $850 million bridge loan commitment and a $900 million committed term loan from Goldman Sachs Bank USA and Bank of America Merrill Lynch, in each case subject to customary terms and conditions.
In addition, in connection with the Merger, the Company plans to obtain a $500 million revolving credit facility, borrowings under which will be used for general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries.This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
Our core strength is developing complex System-on-a-Chip (“SoC”) devices, leveraging our technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, and embedded and standalone integrated circuits.The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 8 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference.
Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, semiconductor and related industries and end markets.
In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
Our proposed acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”) involves a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that we fail to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or at all, regulatory risks, risks associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.
If any conditions or changes to the structure of the proposed transaction are required to obtain these regulatory approvals, they may have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the proposed transaction or reducing our anticipated benefits.
If we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the proposed transaction, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.