The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2019, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2019 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
As of November 2, 2019, the Company classified assets held for sale of $600.9 million, which consisted of $30.1 million of inventory, $7.3 million of property, plant and equipment, $557.8 million of goodwill and $5.6 million of right-of-use lease asset.
In addition, the Company classified liabilities held for sale of $5.6 million associated with lease and other liabilities in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the operating results of Aquantia for the period from the date of acquisition to the Company’s third quarter ended November 2, 2019.
Subsequent to quarter end, on November 5, 2019, the Company acquired Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the Application Specific Integrated Circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries (“GlobalFoundries”) for $597.5 million in cash at closing.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which amends the existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligation created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The Company adopted the new lease accounting standard on February 3, 2019, using the modified retrospective approach by applying the new standard to leases existing at the date of initial application and not restating comparative periods.This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, our net revenue decreased year over year by 22% from $851.1 million net revenue in the third quarter fiscal 2019 compared with $662.5 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2020.The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference.
Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets.
In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
•changes in general economic conditions, such as the impact of Brexit on the economy in the E.U., political conditions, such as the recent tariffs and trade bans, and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry; Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common shares at or above the price you paid.
In addition, we have entered into an asset purchase agreement with NXP USA, Inc. dated May 29, 2019 pursuant to which we agreed to sell to NXP certain assets related to our wireless business for $1.76 billion in cash at closing, subject to working capital and other customary adjustments that will be determined at close.
Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.