fls.txt
 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
There were no anti-dilutive PSUs or RSUs outstanding as of June 30, 2019 or July 1, 2018, respectively.
As a result, an aggregate of 50,000 dividend-based RSUs currently remain outstanding.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
The Company’s leases include rental payments adjusted for inflation.
This product category also includes training classes, technical support and engineering design services.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2020 related to the fiscal 2019 grant of PSUs, which also had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019).
accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
Under certain circumstances, the Applicable Rate is subject to change at the Lenders’ option from the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
 The following tables summarize the pertinent information for outstanding options.


item2.txt
 We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements.
 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share.
Based on the evaluation of these controls and procedures required by Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b) of the Exchange Act, the Company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement accrue interest at the rates, and the Company is required to pay a monthly commitment fee, as also discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased by 17.7% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
 Net cash provided by financing activities was $3.8 million for the first three months of fiscal 2020, compared to $3.1 million provided in the first three months of fiscal 2019.
 Total Revenues.
 A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation.
The increase in the effective tax rate is the result of permanent and other tax adjustments remaining consistent year over year while pre-tax income decreased year over year.
Barriers to entry for distributors are relatively low, particularly in the mobile devices and accessories market, and the risk of new competitors entering the marketplace is high.
Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement accrue interest at the rates, and the Company is required to pay a monthly commitment fee, as also discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Exhibits.


part2.txt
 Item 2.
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


