fls.txt



item1.txt
The new standard will change the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement.
 Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement initially accrue interest from the applicable borrowing date at an Applicable Rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
The Company is required to pay a monthly Commitment Fee on the average daily unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility provided for pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, at a per annum rate equal to 0.25%.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
Base station infrastructure service offerings include connector installation, custom jumper assembly, site kitting and logistics integration.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
For the fiscal quarter ended June 25, 2017, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 11.8% and 11.1% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
Subject to earlier issuance upon the occurrence of certain events (as described in the applicable award agreement), any earned shares are issued and distributed to the recipient upon the fourth anniversary of the award date.
The cumulative amount of interest and penalties included as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet as of April 1, 2018 was $250,500 (net of federal benefit).
To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2019 are not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.
 The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2018 included $320,500 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense.
 The following tables summarize the pertinent information for outstanding options.
 There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.
 For the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2018, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 14.2% and 8.0% of consolidated revenue, respectively.


item2.txt
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased 69.6% and diluted earnings per share increased 62.5% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.
Consequently, the reader is cautioned to consider all forward-looking statements in light of the risks to which they are subject.
 A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
In addition to expanding the borrowing limit, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility extends the applicable maturity date to October 19, 2021.
Revenues in our value-added resellers market decreased slightly by 1.0%.
 We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements.
This fiscal 2018 outflow was driven by an increase in accounts receivable and product inventory, partially offset by net income and an increase in accounts payable.
Within our commercial segment, revenues in our public carrier market increased by 51.7%.
The increase in revenue from our government market was primarily related to increased spending by government contractors related to state and local government fiscal year ends.
 The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors.
In addition, many manufacturers sell direct.


item3.txt
We had no long-term variable rate debt obligations as of July 1, 2018.


item4.txt
Exhibits.


part2.txt
 There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.
Other Information.


