fls.txt
This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses.


item1.txt
2016-02, Leases.
Common shares are excluded from the calculation if they are determined to be anti-dilutive.
Pursuant to the typical PSU award agreement, however, performance metrics are deemed met upon the occurrence of a change in control, and shares earned are issued earlier upon the occurrence of a change in control, or death or disability of the employee, or upon termination of the employee’s employment without cause or by the employee for good reason, as those terms are defined in the applicable PSU award agreement.
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
Subject to earlier issuance upon the occurrence of certain events (as described in the applicable award agreement), any earned shares are issued and distributed to the recipient upon the fourth anniversary of the award date.
 For the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2019, revenue from the Company’s largest customer accounted for 10.5% of total consolidated revenues.
Base station infrastructure service offerings include connector installation, custom jumper assembly, site kitting and logistics integration.
 The Company leases certain office spaces and equipment.
To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2020 are not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.
 The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur rather than estimate expected forfeitures.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
metrics are met to a sufficient extent, the shares earned at the end of fiscal 2020 on the basis of that performance will vest in four equal installments beginning on or about May 15, 2020 and continuing on the same date in calendar 2021, 2022 and 2023, provided that the respective employee remains employed by the Company on each such date.
An additional 2,000 RSU’s with similar terms (but with a shorter earnings period) were awarded in fiscal 2019, and in connection with his hiring as our new President and Chief Executive Officer, the Company issued an additional RSU grant to Mr. Mukerjee under the 2019 Plan for


item2.txt
 The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors.
We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation.
Risk Factors.
Gross profit margin in our value-added resellers and integrators market decreased from 24.6% to 23.8%.
The decline in the retail segment was driven by significantly lower revenues from one of our more significant retail customers following its acquisition during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, change in business model and subsequent transition of its business elsewhere, as well as ongoing overall market softness.
These decreases were largely due to the decline in overall revenues.
Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased by 16.2% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $3.7 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Net interest expense increased from $419,200 for the first six months of fiscal 2019 to $543,800 for the first six months of fiscal 2020.
Gross profit margin in our value-added resellers and integrators market decreased from 24.6% to 23.8%.
In addition to increasing the borrowing limit, and among other modifications, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement extended the applicable maturity date to October 19, 2021.
Revenues in our public carrier market, value-added resellers and integrators market and retail market decreased by 9.2%, 3.4% and 26.3%, respectively.
Controls and Procedures.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Exhibits.


part2.txt
 None.
Mine Safety Disclosures.


