 As of September 30, 2018, there was approximately $0.8 million of total unrecognized compensation costs, related to these awards.
Base station infrastructure service offerings include connector installation, custom jumper assembly, site kitting and logistics integration.
 PSUs and RSUs are expensed based on the grant date fair value, calculated as the closing price of TESSCO common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the date of grant minus the present value of dividends expected to be paid on the common stock before the award vests, because dividends or dividend-equivalent amounts do not accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.
 Item 1A.
The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet.
The company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
The cumulative amount included in the consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2018 was $265,600 (net of federal benefit).
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We have made quarterly dividend payments to holders of our common stock since the third quarter of fiscal 2010.
 Total Revenues.
During the period covered by this quarterly report, there have been no changes to the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Accounts payable also increased in response to higher inventory levels.
 For a detailed discussion on our critical accounting policies, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.
 A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met.
The effective tax rate decreased from 42.6% for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to 28.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
We continue to invest in our information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives. None.