fls.txt
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.


item1.txt
The right-of-use assets and liabilities are estimated to be less than 3% of total assets.
 The Company now accounts for forfeitures as they occur rather than estimate expected forfeitures.
 The following tables summarize the pertinent information for outstanding options.
Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.
 As of December 30, 2018, there was approximately $0.8 million of total unrecognized compensation costs, related to these awards.
The Applicable Rate adjusts on the first Business Day of each calendar month.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
2016-02, Leases.
To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2019 are not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.
Diluted earnings per share are computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential additional common shares that were dilutive had been issued.
The right-of-use assets and liabilities are estimated to be less than 3% of total assets.
Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement for the secured Revolving Credit Facility was amended and restated in order to, among other things, increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.


item2.txt
 For a detailed discussion on our critical accounting policies, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.
There was an increase of $0.5 million in corporate support expense, primarily related to bad debt expenses, an increase of $0.3 million in information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives, and an increase of $0.2 million in compensation and benefits expense, during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation.
To minimize interest expense, our policy is to apply excess available cash to reduce the balance outstanding from time to time on our secured Revolving Credit Facility.
We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.
 Total Revenues.
 Our third quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 4.1% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
 Any future declaration of dividends and the establishment of any corresponding record and payment dates remains subject to further determination from time to time by the Board of Directors.
 Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.0 million for the first nine months of both fiscal 2019 and 2018.
 A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
 TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Controls and Procedures.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Other Information.


part2.txt
 Item 2.
 None.


