item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued a standard on revenue recognition that provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Revenue Standard”) on January 1, 2018 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the modified retrospective approach, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated net income, balance sheet or cash flow.
In May 2017, the FASB issued guidance to clarify when to account for a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
We elected to adopt this guidance during the quarter ended June 30, 2018, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The guidance requires the use of a modified retrospective approach to apply the standard at the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements.
In July 2018, updated guidance was issued which provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
We will adopt the guidance on January 1, 2019 using this additional transition method and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
The New Revenue Standard did not have an impact on the amount or timing of our revenue recognition; however, certain payments to customers were reclassified from expenses to a reduction from revenues, resulting in an immaterial impact to the individual financial statement line items of our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period results have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $116,400 and $21,800, respectively, were outstanding under the revolving credit agreement.


item2.txt
Revenues for the third quarter of 2018 increased $66.4 million, or 5%, including $3.4 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.8 million from locations closed.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $66.8 million, or 5%, as compared to the same period in 2017, reflecting a 7% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales), which included a 6% increase in residential HVAC equipment and a 9% increase in commercial HVAC equipment, a 4% increase in sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) and flat sales of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).
The increase in same-store revenues was primarily due to realization of price increases, demand for the replacement of residential and commercial HVAC equipment and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of 2018 increased $16.7 million, or 9%, primarily due to increased revenues, additional sales and service-related headcount and an increase in performance-based compensation specific to certain markets.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased to 15.5% versus 14.9% for the same period in 2017.
On a same-store basis, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 9% as compared to the same period in 2017.
The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues was primarily due to our inability to leverage fixed operating costs to the same extent as in 2017.
Other income of $3.7 million and $2.3 million for the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, represents our share of the net income of RSI.
Net income attributable to Watsco for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased $14.1 million, or 22%, compared to the same period in 2017.
The increase was primarily driven by higher revenues, expanded profit margins, lower interest expense, net, and lower income taxes, partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues, as discussed above.
Revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $177.7 million, or 5%, including $14.0 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $10.3 million from locations closed.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $174.0 million, or 5%, as compared to the same period in 2017, reflecting a 7% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales), which included a 7% increase in residential HVAC equipment and a 6% increase in commercial HVAC equipment, a 5% increase in sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) and flat sales of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).


item4.txt
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“the Exchange Act”)) that are, among other things, designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Senior Vice President (“SVP”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure and appropriate SEC filings.


part2.txt
ITEM 1.
ITEM 1A.


