The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued a standard on revenue recognition that provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance related to certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
Most prominent among the changes to the standard is the requirement that changes in the fair value of equity investments, with certain exceptions, be recognized through net income rather than other comprehensive income.
A cumulative-effect adjustment captured the previously held unrealized losses of $301 related to our equity investment carried at fair value.
In May 2017, the FASB issued guidance to clarify when to account for a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the accounting for hedging derivatives.
In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period results have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.On November 29, 2016, we purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, and, on February 13, 2017, we again purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, which together increased our controlling interest to 80%.
We believe that there have been no significant changes during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Revenues for the second quarter of 2018 increased $56.8 million, or 5%, including $6.0 million from locations opened during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.2 million from locations closed.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $54.0 million, or 4%, as compared to the same period in 2017, reflecting a 6% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales), which included a 6% increase in residential HVAC equipment and a 5% increase in commercial HVAC equipment, a 5% increase in sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) and a 1% increase in sales of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).
The increase in same-store revenues was primarily due to demand for the replacement of residential and commercial HVAC equipment.
Gross profit for the second quarter of 2018 increased $10.5 million, or 3%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2018 increased $5.6 million, or 3%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 decreased to 14.0% versus 14.2% for the same period in 2017.