fls.txt
Statements which are not historical in nature, including the words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “could,” “should,” “may,” “plan,” “seek,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “target,” “will,” “project,” “focused,” “outlook,” and variations of these words and negatives thereof and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, including statements regarding, among others, (i) economic conditions, (ii) business and acquisition strategies, (iii) potential acquisitions and/or joint ventures and investments in unconsolidated entities, (iv) financing plans, and (v) industry, demographic and other trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued a standard on revenue recognition that provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Revenue Standard”) on January 1, 2018 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the modified retrospective approach, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated net income, balance sheet or cash flow.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance related to certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
Most prominent among the changes to the standard is the requirement that changes in the fair value of equity investments, with certain exceptions, be recognized through net income rather than other comprehensive income.
A cumulative-effect adjustment captured the previously held unrealized losses of $301 related to our equity investment carried at fair value.
In May 2017, the FASB issued guidance to clarify when to account for a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the accounting for hedging derivatives.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
Total service revenue is not material and accounted for less than 1% of revenues for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
We estimate sales incentives expected to be paid over the term of the contract based on the most likely amount.
Contract liabilities related to sales incentives are accounted for as a reduction in the transaction price and are generally paid on an annual basis.
Diluted earnings per share excluded 9,228 and 16,067 shares for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to stock options with an exercise price per share greater than the average market value, resulting in an anti-dilutive effect on diluted earnings per share.


item2.txt
Neither Watsco nor Carrier has any remaining options to purchase additional ownership interests in Carrier Enterprise I or any of our other joint ventures with Carrier, which are described below.
On November 29, 2016, we purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, and, on February 13, 2017, we again purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, which together increased our controlling interest to 80%.
We believe that there have been no significant changes during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Refer to Note 1 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recently adopted and to be adopted accounting standards.
(“RSI”) purchased in June 2017 and our additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, which became effective on February 13, 2017.
Revenues for the first quarter of 2018 increased $54.5 million, or 6%, including $4.6 million from locations opened during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.3 million from locations closed.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $53.2 million, or 6%, as compared to the same period in 2017, reflecting an 8% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (66% of sales), which included a 9% increase in residential HVAC equipment and a 4% increase in commercial HVAC equipment, a 5% increase in sales of other HVAC products (29% of sales) and flat sales of commercial refrigeration products (5% of sales).
Gross profit for the first quarter of 2018 increased $12.3 million, or 6%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2018 increased $8.7 million, or 5%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 decreased to 19.3% versus 19.5% for the same period in 2017.
Other income of $1.6 million for the first quarter of 2018 represents our approximate 35% share of the net income of RSI.
Net interest expense for the first quarter of 2018 decreased $0.7 million, or 55%, primarily as a result of a decrease in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a higher effective interest rate for the 2018 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt



