fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Preformed Line Products Company and subsidiaries (the “Company” or “PLPC”) have been prepared in accordance with United States of America (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Net sales include products and shipping and handling charges, net of estimates for product returns.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products.
The Company estimates product returns based on historical return rates.
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $26.7 million at June 30, 2018 and $25.1 million at December 31, 2017.
Accordingly, interim LIFO calculations are based on management’s estimates of expected year-end inventory levels and costs.
Noncurrent inventory is included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the “Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).
The Company will contribute $.1 million of additional funding to the Plan during the second half of 2018 and is continuing to evaluate the benefits of contributing additional funds to the Plan during the remainder of the current fiscal year.
This AOCI component is included in the computation of net periodic pension costs.
For both the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2018, no stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as there was no anti-dilutive effect.
The Company performs its annual impairment test for goodwill utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology, market comparables, and an overall market capitalization reasonableness test in computing fair value by reporting unit.
Based on the assumptions as to growth, discount rates and the weighting used for each respective valuation methodology, results of the valuations could be significantly different.
However, the Company believes that the methodologies and weightings used are reasonable and result in appropriate fair values of the reporting units.
The Company maintains an equity award program to give the Company a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining, and motivating officers, employees and directors and to provide an incentive to those individuals to increase shareholder value through long-term incentives directly linked to the Company’s performance.
The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the LTIP was 900,000, of which 800,000 common shares were reserved for RSUs and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options.


item2.txt
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947.
We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries.
Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires.
We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures.
Our goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture, and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets.
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment.
We evaluate segment performance and allocate resources based on several factors primarily based on sales and net income.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
The operating results for the three months ended June 30, 2018 are compared to the same period in 2017.
Gross profit increased $5.8 million, or 19.4%, compared to 2017, excluding the unfavorable impact from currency translation.
We have continued to invest in the business to improve efficiency, develop new products, increase our capacity and become an even stronger supplier to our customers.


item3.txt
The Company believes that the political and economic risks related to the Company’s international operations are mitigated due to the geographic diversity in which the Company’s international operations are located.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Company and its subsidiaries, Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the “Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).


