fls.txt



item1.txt
Noncontrolling interests are presented in the Company’s consolidated financial statements as if parent company investors (controlling interests) and other minority investors (noncontrolling interests) in partially-owned subsidiaries have similar economic interests in a single entity.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products.
All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies the performance obligations under the contract and control of the product is transferred to the customer, primarily based on shipping terms.
The Company estimates product returns based on historical return rates.
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $30.3 million at September 30, 2019 and $29.5 million at December 31, 2018.
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply), “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the (“Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).
No contributions were made to the Plan during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
This AOCI component is included in the computation of net periodic pension costs.
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.
For both the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, 15,000 stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
The Company performs its annual impairment test for goodwill utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology, market comparables, and an overall market capitalization reasonableness test in computing fair value by reporting unit.
The Company’s total Indefinite-lived intangible assets includes $10.4 million attributable to its newly acquired businesses.
As all stock options from the 1999 Stock Option Plan had been fully vested and exercised, the Company recorded no compensation expense related to stock options for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
The Company maintains an equity award program to give the Company a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining, and motivating officers, employees and directors and to provide an incentive to those individuals to increase shareholder value through long-term incentives directly linked to the Company’s performance.
Under the Preformed Line Products Company Long Term Incentive Plan of 2008 (the “LTIP”), certain employees, officers, and directors were eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and restricted share units (RSUs).
The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the LTIP was 900,000, of which 800,000 common shares were reserved for RSUs and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options.
The LTIP was terminated and replaced with the Preformed Line Products Company 2016 Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) in May 2016 upon approval by the Company’s Shareholders at the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 10, 2016.


item2.txt
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947.
We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries.
Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires.
We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures.
Our goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture, and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets.
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Gross profit for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $39.3 million and $33.5 million, respectively.
The effect of currency translation had virtually no impact on operating income or net income.


item3.txt
The Company believes that the political and economic risks related to the Company’s international operations are mitigated due to the geographic diversity in which the Company’s international operations are located.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Company and its subsidiaries, Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply), “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the (“Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).


