The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs and involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions.
Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within “Forward-Looking Statements” below and in Item 1A.
Risk Factors and “Forward-Looking Statements” included within our 2018 Annual Report.
Forward-Looking Statements

This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Edgewell Personal Care Company (“Edgewell”, “we” or “our Company”) or any of our businesses.
Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of words or phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “expectation,” “anticipate,” “may,” “could,” “intend,” “belief,” “estimate,” “plan,” “target,” “predict,” “likely,” “will,” “should,” “forecast,” “outlook,” or other similar words or phrases.
These statements are not based on historical facts, but instead reflect our expectations, estimates, or projections concerning future results or events, including, without limitation, the future earnings and performance of our Company or any of our businesses.
These statements are not guarantees of performance and are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by those statements.
The forward-looking statements included in this report are only made as of the date of this report, and we disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could significantly affect the forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty.
