Item 1A. Risk Factors
The accounting for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash or in shares of common stock could have a material effect on our reported financial results. 
Under U.S. GAAP, an entity must separately account for the debt component and the embedded conversion option of convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash or in shares of common stock upon conversion, such as our New Senior Convertible Notes, in a manner that reflects the issuer’s effective interest cost. The fair value of the embedded conversion option is classified as an addition to stockholder’s equity. The difference between book carrying cost and face value of the debt represents a non-cash discount. This difference will be amortized into interest expense over the estimated life of the New Senior Convertible Notes using the effective yield method. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the discount over the term of the New Senior Convertible Notes. Accordingly, we will report lower net income because of the recognition of both the current period’s discount amortization and the New Senior Convertible Notes’ coupon interest, which could adversely affect the trading price of our shares of common stock and the trading price (if any) of the New Senior Convertible Notes. 
Under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the New Senior Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash are evaluated for their impact on earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the New Senior Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the New Senior Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method the number of shares outstanding for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share includes the number of shares that would be required to settle the excess of the conversion value of the New Senior Convertible Notes, if any, over the principal amounts of the New Senior Convertible Notes (which would be settled in cash). The conversion value of the New Senior Convertible Notes will exceed the principal amount of the notes to the extent the trading price of a share of our stock exceeds $203.50. We intend to settle the principal amount of the convertible notes in cash. However, we may not have access to the capital markets for financing on acceptable terms and conditions, particularly if our credit ratings are downgraded. Accordingly, we may be forced to fully settle the New Senior Convertible Notes in shares of common stock upon conversion, the effect of which would cause the dilutive impact to earnings per share to be significantly in excess of the dilutive impact reflected by the treasury stock method.
