On March 7, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million. This acquisition expands our software portfolio in the Command Center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1. 
We adopted ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers", and all the related amendments (collectively “ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to our opening retained earnings. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect in those periods. The impact from adoption increased Net sales by $15 million.
We are a leading global provider of mission-critical communication infrastructure, devices, accessories, software, and services. Our products and services help government, public safety and commercial customers improve their operations through increased effectiveness, efficiency, and safety of their mobile workforces. We serve our customers with a global footprint of sales in more than 100 countries and 17,000 employees worldwide, based on our industry leading innovation and a deep portfolio of products and services.
Gross margin was $669 million, or 45.6% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2018, compared to $570 million, or 44.5% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2017. The increase in gross margin percentage was primarily driven by a favorable mix in the Products segment. 
Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $11 million in the first quarter of 2018 compared to net gains of $3 million in the first quarter of 2017. The net gains in the first quarter of 2018 and 2017 were related to sales of various equity investments.
Net Earnings Attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc.
After taxes, we had net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $117 million, or $0.69 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2018, compared to net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $77 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2017.
For both the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, the segment’s net sales represented 55% of our consolidated net sales.
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 76% of the segment’s net sales in the first quarter of 2018, compared to 75% of the segment's net sales in the first quarter of 2017. 
For both the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, the segment’s net sales represented 45% of our consolidated net sales.
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 59% of the segment’s net sales in the first quarter of 2018, compared to 58% of the segment’s net sales in the first quarter of 2017.
Cash payments for employee severance and exit costs in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $15 million in the first quarter of 2018 and $30 million in the first quarter of 2017. The reorganization of business accruals at March 31, 2018 were $48 million, of which $39 million relate to employee separation costs that are expected to be paid within one year and $9 million of accruals related primarily to lease termination obligations that are expected to be paid over a number of years.
At March 31, 2018, $440 million of the $858 million cash and cash equivalents balance was held in the U.S. and approximately $418 million was held by us or our subsidiaries in other countries. Restricted cash was $63 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 
In February of 2018, we issued $500 million of 4.60% Senior notes due 2028. After debt issuance costs and debt discounts, we recognized net proceeds of $497 million. These proceeds were then used to make a $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan.
On August 25, 2015, we entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 2.00% Senior Convertible Notes which mature in September 2020. The notes became fully convertible as of August 25, 2017. The notes are convertible based on a conversion rate of 14.7476, as may be adjusted for dividends declared, per $1,000 principal amount (which is currently equal to a conversion price of $67.81 per share). The exercise price adjusts automatically for dividends. In the event of conversion, the notes may be settled in either cash or stock, at our discretion. We intend to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash.
At March 31, 2018, the Company had retained servicing obligations for $848 million of long-term receivables, compared to $873 million at December 31, 2017. Servicing obligations are limited to collection activities related to the sales of accounts receivables and long-term receivables. 
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, "Leases," which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. The ASU is effective for us on January 1, 2019 and interim periods within that reporting period, with early adoption permitted. The ASU prescribes the use of a modified retrospective method upon adoption, which requires all prior periods presented in the financial statements to be restated, with a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the earliest period presented. We have begun to assess the impact of the ASU on our financial statements and expect a material impact to our balance sheet through the recording of right-of-use assets and lease obligations that were not required to be recorded within the balance sheet under current accounting standards. We have also begun to catalog our existing lease contracts and identify changes needed to systems and processes.
We adopted ASU No. 2017-07, “Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715) - Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost” on January 1, 2018 using the retrospective method of adoption. The amendments in the ASU require that an employer disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net periodic cost (benefit) and report that component in the same line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by employees during the period. The other components of net periodic cost (benefit) are required to be presented in the statement of operations separately from the service cost component and outside of operating earnings. We have restated our comparative period results to reflect the application of the presentation guidance of the ASU. As a result of the ASU, the presentation of net periodic cost (benefit) has been updated to classify all components of our net periodic benefit, with the exception of the service cost component, within Other in Other income (expense) on the statement of operations. We reclassified $20 million and $3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, respectively.
We adopted ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers", and all the related amendments (collectively “ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to our opening retained earnings. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect in those periods.
Under the new standard, revenue recognition for software sales is accelerated based on when control of software licenses and related support services are transferred to the customer. Amounts deferred under previous software accounting rules due to a lack of vendor-specific objective evidence have been recognized as an adjustment through opening retained earnings.
 Historically, we presented transactions that involved a third-party sales representative on a net basis. After considering the control concept and the remaining three indicators of gross presentation under the new standard, we have determined that we are the principal in contracts that involve a third-party sales representative. Thus, we present associated revenues on a gross 
basis, with the affect being an equal increase to selling, general and administrative expenses for our cost of third-party commissions.
The new standard clarified the definition of a receivable and requires us to present our net position in a contract with a customer on the balance sheet. The position is presented as either a receivable, contract asset, or a contract liability. Under the new definition, accounts receivable are unconditional rights to consideration from a customer. Contract assets represent rights to consideration from a customer in exchange for transferred goods and services that are conditional on events other than the passage of time. Contract liabilities represent obligations to transfer goods and services for which we have received, or is due, consideration from a customer respectively. We reclassified our customer positions to align with the new definitions and presentation guidance. Accordingly, Unbilled accounts receivable and Costs and earnings in excess of billings have been reclassified from Accounts receivable and Other current assets, respectively, and are presented as Contract assets. Accounts receivable which are not due from customers have been reclassified into Other current assets. Deferred revenue, Billings in excess of costs and earnings, and Customer downpayments have been reclassified from Accrued liabilities and are presented as Contract liabilities. Non-current deferred revenue has been reclassified from Deferred revenue to Non-current contract liabilities within Other liabilities.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
The following table provides information with respect to acquisitions by the Company of shares of its common stock during the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
