CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada. The Company's offerings range from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.
The Company sells cloud computing solutions, which include Software as a Service ("SaaS") and Infrastructure as a Service ("IaaS"). SaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to offer the Company's customers access to software in the cloud that enhances office productivity, provides security or assists in collaboration. IaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to enable customers to access data center functionality in a cloud-based solution, including storage, computing and networking. The Company recognizes revenue for cloud computing solutions for arrangements with one-time invoicing to the customer at the time of invoice on a net basis as the Company is acting as an agent in the transaction. For monthly subscription-based arrangements, the Company is acting as an agent in the transaction and recognizes revenue as it invoices the customer for its monthly usage on a net basis.
The Company is a primary distribution channel for a large group of vendors and suppliers, including original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and wholesale distributors. 
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
annual renewals, the Company has excluded these contracts since there is only a one-year legal obligation. Typically, the only contracts that are longer than 12 months in duration are related to the Company's professional and managed services business.
Revenues from most software license sales are recognized as a single performance obligation on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in these transactions at the point the software license is delivered to the customer. Generally, software licenses are sold with accompanying third-party delivered software assurance, which is a product that allows customers to upgrade, at no additional cost, to the latest technology if new capabilities are introduced during the period that the software assurance is in effect. The Company evaluates whether the software assurance is a separate performance obligation by assessing if the third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software itself. This involves considering if the software provides its original intended functionality to the customer without the updates, if the customer would ascribe a higher value to the upgrades versus the up-front deliverable, if the customer would expect frequent intelligence updates to the software (such as updates that maintain the original functionality), and if the customer chooses to not delay or always install upgrades. If the Company determines that the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software license, the software license and the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance are recognized as a single performance obligation. The value of the product is primarily the accompanying support delivered by a third-party and therefore the Company is acting as an agent in these transactions and recognizes them on a net basis at the point the associated software license is delivered to the customer. For software licenses where the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is not critical or essential to the core functionality, the software assurance is recognized as a separate performance obligation, with the associated revenue recognized on a net basis at the point the related software license is delivered to the customer. For additional details regarding the accounting for bundled arrangements, see "Revenue Recognition for Bundled Arrangements" below.
The following table presents Net sales by major category for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. Categories are based upon internal classifications. 
Any incremental direct costs of obtaining a contract, primarily sales commissions, are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortized over the period of contract performance.
Prior to the election of hedge accounting treatment during the first quarter of 2017, the Company recognized less than $1 million of Interest income during the six months ended June 30, 2017 in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations related to the changes in the fair value of the interest rate cap agreements.As a percentage of total Net sales, Selling and administrative expenses decreased 20 basis points to 9.1% during the three months ended June 30, 2018, down from 9.3% in the three months ended June 30, 2017.
Non-GAAP net income was $213 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, an increase of $50 million, or 30.8%, compared to $163 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $15 million, or 4.6%, between periods. Sales growth was primarily driven by client device refresh.
Small Business segment Net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $50 million, or 8.3%, between periods. Sales growth was primarily driven by client device refresh.
Small Business segment income from operations was $25 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, an increase of $6 million, or 26.8%, compared to $19 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017. Small business segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars driven by higher sales and product margin. Small Business segment operating margin percentage increased 130 basis points to 7.5% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, from 6.2% for the three months ended June 30, 2017. This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by higher product margin and the benefit of lower sales payroll expenses as a percentage of Net sales.
Public segment income from operations was $113 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, an increase of $8 million, or 8.0%, compared to $105 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017. Public segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher Gross profit dollars driven by improved product margin. Public segment operating margin percentage increased 50 basis points to 6.9% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, from 6.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2017. This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by higher product margin and the benefit of lower sales payroll expenses as a percentage of Net sales.
percentage increased 10 basis points to 8.1% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, from 8.0% for the three months ended June 30, 2017. This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by the benefit of lower Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales. This was partially offset by product margin compression due to increased hardware sales.
Public segment income from operations was $185 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, an increase of $20 million, or 11.7%, compared to $165 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017. Public segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher Gross profit dollars driven by improved product margin. Public segment operating margin percentage increased 50 basis points to 6.4% for the six months ended June 30, 2018, from 5.9% for the six months ended June 30, 2017. This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by a higher product margin and the benefit of lower sales payroll expenses as a percentage of Net sales.Item 1. Legal Proceedings