CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada. The Company's offerings range from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.
The Company sells cloud computing solutions, which include Software as a Service ("SaaS") and Infrastructure as a Service ("IaaS"). SaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to offer the Company's customers access to software in the cloud that enhances office productivity, provides security or assists in collaboration. IaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to enable customers to access data center functionality in a cloud-based solution, including storage, computing and networking. The Company recognizes revenue for cloud computing solutions for arrangements with one-time invoicing to the customer at the time of invoice on a net basis as the Company is acting as an agent in the transaction. For monthly subscription-based arrangements, the Company is acting as an agent in the transaction and recognizes revenue as it invoices the customer for its monthly usage on a net basis.
The Company is a primary distribution channel for a large group of vendors and suppliers, including original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and wholesale distributors. 
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
Revenues from sales of hardware products are recognized on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in these transactions, with the selling price to the customer recorded as Net sales and the acquisition cost of the product recorded as Cost of sales. The Company recognizes revenue from these transactions when control has passed to the customer, which is usually upon delivery of the product to the customer. 
Revenues from most software license sales are recognized as a single performance obligation on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in these transactions at the point the software license is delivered to the customer. Generally, software licenses are sold with accompanying third-party delivered software assurance, which is a product that allows customers to upgrade, at no additional cost, to the latest technology if new capabilities are introduced during the period that the software assurance is in effect. The Company evaluates whether the software assurance is a separate performance obligation by assessing if the third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software itself. This involves considering if the software provides its original intended functionality to the customer without the updates, if the customer would ascribe a higher value to the upgrades versus the up-front deliverable, if the customer would expect frequent intelligence updates to the software (such as updates that maintain the original functionality), and if the customer chooses to not delay or always install upgrades. If the Company determines that the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software license, the software license and the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance are recognized as a single performance obligation. The value of the product is primarily the accompanying support delivered by a third-party and therefore the Company is acting as an agent in these transactions and recognizes them on a net basis at the point the associated software license is delivered to the customer. For software licenses where the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is not critical or essential to the core functionality, the software assurance is recognized as a separate performance obligation, with the associated revenue recognized on a net basis at the point the related software license is delivered to the customer. For additional details regarding the accounting for bundled arrangements, see "Revenue Recognition for Bundled Arrangements" below.
The Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts. The Company has elected to use the practical expedient for its performance obligations table to show only those contracts that are longer than 12 months at the time of contract inception and those contracts that are non-cancelable. Additionally, for certain governmental contracts where there are annual renewals, the Company has excluded these contracts since there is only a one-year legal obligation. Typically, the only contracts that are longer than 12 months in duration are related to the Company's professional and managed services business. 
Any incremental direct costs of obtaining a contract, primarily sales commissions, are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortized over the period of contract performance.
The following table presents Net sales by major category for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Categories are based upon internal classifications. Small Business segment Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $85 million, or 9.3%, between periods. Sales growth was primarily driven by client device refresh.
Small Business segment income from operations was $24 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $6 million, or 36.1%, compared to $18 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Small business segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars. Small Business segment operating margin percentage increased 130 basis points to 7.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, from 5.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2017. This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by higher product margin, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses and coworker costs due to higher attainment for performance-based compensation as a percentage of Net sales.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $35 million, or 11.3%, between periods. Sales growth was primarily driven by solutions growth, including software.
Public segment income from operations was $138 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $16 million, or 12.9%, compared to $122 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Public segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars. Public segment operating margin percentage increased 20 basis points to 7.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, from 7.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2017. This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by higher product margin, partially offset by higher coworker costs due to higher attainment for performance-based compensation as a percentage of Net sales.
Public segment income from operations was $323 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $35 million, or 12.2%, compared to $288 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Public segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars. Public segment operating margin percentage increased 40 basis points to 6.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, from 6.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by a higher product margin.
Small Business segment income from operations was $71 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $17 million, or 32.1%, compared to $54 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Small business segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars. Small Business segment operating margin percentage increased 120 basis points to 7.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, from 5.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by higher product margin and the benefit of lower sales payroll expenses and intangible asset amortization expenses as a percentage of Net sales.
Non-GAAP net income was $218 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $50 million, or 29.3%, compared to $168 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018, Net sales growth reflected balanced growth across transactions and solutions. Transactional growth was primarily driven by client devices. Solutions growth was driven primarily by software, servers, networking and enterprise storage. Additionally, strong results from our international operations contributed to our Net sales growth. Item 1. Legal Proceedings