 Item 2:  



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  



Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q which are not historical facts, so called “forward-looking statements,” are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including those detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. See also Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which reflect management’s analysis only as of the date hereof. We assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law.  



Overview  





   •    



semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems;  



   •    



industrial automation (“Industrial Automation”) products;  



   •    





   •    



wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.  



We have a customer base which includes integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”), outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers (“OSATs”), original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), wafer foundries, fabless companies that design, but contract with others for the manufacture of integrated circuits (“ICs”), developers of wireless devices and consumer electronics, manufacturers of circuit boards, automotive suppliers, wireless product manufacturers, storage device manufacturers, aerospace and military contractors, and distributors that sell collaborative robots, autonomous mobile robots and wireless test systems.  



The market for our test products is concentrated with a limited number of significant customers accounting for a substantial portion of the purchases of test equipment. One customer drives significant demand for our products both through direct sales and sales to the customer’s supply partners. We expect that sales of our test products will continue to be concentrated with a limited number of significant customers for the foreseeable future.  





Table of Contents 



The sales of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers who are subject to cyclical trends in the demand for their products. These cyclical periods have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our business because our customers often delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and to demand fluctuations in the semiconductor and electronics industries. Historically, these demand fluctuations have resulted in significant variations in our results of operations.  



On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.  



On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. The total purchase price was approximately $198 million, which included cash paid of approximately $145 million and $53 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes through 2020. Contingent consideration for 2018 was $31 million and was paid in March 2019. The maximum payment for the remaining MiR contingent consideration that could be paid is $83.2 million.  



MiR and Energid are included in our Industrial Automation segment.  



On January 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million. Lemsys strengthens our position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications. Lemsys is included in our Semiconductor Test segment.  



We believe our recent acquisitions have enhanced our opportunities for growth. We intend to continue to invest in our business, grow market share in our markets and expand further our addressable markets while tightly managing our costs.  



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  



We have identified the policies which are critical to understanding our business and our results of operations. There have been no significant changes during the three months ended March 31, 2019 to the items disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, except as noted below.  



Leases  







Table of Contents 



Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when we have the right to control the use of an identified asset. We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use. As of March 31, 2019, we do not have material leases that have not yet commenced.  



We determine if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset. The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.  



For leases commencing after January 1, 2019, the lease liability is measured at the present value of future lease payments, discounted using the discount rate for the lease at the commencement date. As we are typically unable to determine the implicit rate, we use an incremental borrowing rate based on the lease term and economic environment at commencement date. We initially measure payments based on an index by using the applicable rate at lease commencement. Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred. The ROU asset is initially measured as the amount of lease liability, adjusted for any initial lease costs, prepaid lease payments, and reduced by any lease incentives.  



Our contracts often include non-lease components such as common area maintenance. We elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. For leases with a term of one year or less we elected not to record the lease asset or liability. The lease payments are recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We include lease costs within cost of revenues and operating expenses  



Preparation of Financial Statements and Use of Estimates  



The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.  





Table of Contents 



SELECTED RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED  



STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  





Results of Operations  



First Quarter 2019 Compared to First Quarter 2018  



Revenues  









Table of Contents 



The decrease in Semiconductor Test revenues of $32.4 million, or 8.7%, was driven primarily by a decrease in memory test sales and lower mobility test sales, partially offset by higher image sensor test sales. The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $17.3 million, or 35.5%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms and the acquisition of MiR, which was acquired in April 2018. MiR added $9.1 million of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019.  



The increase in System Test revenues of $15.2 million, or 35.3%, was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and higher sales in Production Board Test. The increase in Wireless Test revenues of $6.5 million, or 28.9%, was primarily due to higher demand for millimeter wave and cellular test products.  









Revenues attributable to a country are based on location of customer site.  



Gross Profit  







Gross profit as a percent of revenue increased by 2.8 points, primarily due to favorable product mix.  



We assess the carrying value of our inventory on a quarterly basis by estimating future demand and comparing that demand against on-hand and on-order inventory positions. Forecasted revenue information is obtained from sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future revenue demand. This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory. Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved. Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.  





Table of Contents 



During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded an inventory provision of $2.4 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $1.2 million was related to Semiconductor Test and $0.5 million was related to System Test.  



During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $3.5 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels of which $2.2 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.8 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.3 million was related to System Test, and $0.2 million was related to Industrial Automation.  



During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, we scrapped $0.4 million and $0.3 million of inventory, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, we sold $0.8 million and $2.2 million of previously written-down or written-off inventory, respectively. As of March 31, 2019, we had inventory related reserves for inventory, which had been written-down or written-off totaling $100.9 million. We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.  



Selling and Administrative  







The increase of $11.5 million in selling and administrative expenses was due primarily to higher spending in Industrial Automation due to higher sales and marketing spending in Universal Robots and due to the acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.  



Engineering and Development  







The increase of $2.4 million in engineering and development expenses was primarily due to higher spending in Industrial Automation and Wireless Test, partially offset by lower spending in Semiconductor Test.  



Acquired Intangible Assets Amortization  









Table of Contents 



Acquired intangible assets amortization expense increased primarily due to Industrial Automation acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018 and the Semiconductor Test acquisition of Lemsys in 2019.  



Restructuring and Other  



During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded an expense of $3.0 million for the increase in the fair value of the MiR contingent consideration liability, $1.3 million of acquisition related compensation and expenses, and $0.8 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions primarily in Semiconductor Test.  



During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we recorded a $5.0 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, partially offset by $3.9 million recorded for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, and $0.8 million of acquisition related expenses.  



Interest and Other  





Interest income increased by $2.1 million due primarily to unrealized gains on equity marketable securities in 2019. Interest expense decreased by $1.2 million due primarily to lower realized losses on sales of marketable securities in 2019.  



Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes  









The decrease in income before income taxes in Semiconductor Test was driven primarily by a decrease in memory test sales and lower mobility test sales partially offset by higher image sensor test sales. The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and higher sales in Production Board Test. The increase in income before income taxes in Wireless Test was primarily due to higher demand for millimeter wave and cellular test products. The decrease in income before income taxes in Industrial Automation was primarily due to increased intangible assets amortization expense from the acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.  





Table of Contents 



Income Taxes  



The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 was (16.1)% and 9.2%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate from the three months ended April 1, 2018 to the three months ended March 31, 2019 resulted from discrete tax benefit from the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions, increases in benefits related to the U.S. foreign derived intangible income deduction and U.S. research and development tax credits, a decrease in expense related to the uncertain tax positions for transfer pricing and a reduction in discrete tax expense associated with remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of reductions in tax rates. These reductions were partially offset by a projected shift in the geographic distribution of income, which increases the income subject to taxation in higher tax rate jurisdictions relative to lower tax rate jurisdictions, an increase in the U.S. global intangible low-taxed income inclusion and a reduction in the discrete benefit from stock based compensation.  



Contractual Obligations  









Represents our estimate of a provisional tax amount for the transition tax liability associated with our accumulated foreign earnings as a result of the enactment of the Tax Reform Act on December 22, 2017.  





Included in other long-term liabilities are liabilities for customer advances, extended warranty, uncertain tax positions, deferred tax liabilities and other obligations. For certain long-term obligations, we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to these obligations and therefore we included these amounts in the column marked “Other.”  



Liquidity and Capital Resources  



Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances decreased by $207.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 to $996.7 million.  



Operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 provided cash of $18.0 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $134.2 million. This was due to a $63.3 million increase in operating assets and a $70.9 million decrease in operating liabilities.  



The increase in operating assets was primarily due to a $41.7 million increase in accounts receivable due to increased sales, a $18.6 million increase in prepayments and other assets, and a $2.9 million increase in inventories.  





Table of Contents 



The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $59.5 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $22.8 million decrease in income taxes, an $11.5 million decrease in other accrued liabilities, and $1.2 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $17.7 million increase in accounts payable, and a $6.5 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments.  



Investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 used cash of $261.0 million, due to $375.2 million used for purchases of marketable securities, $25.7 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment, and $7.0 million, net of cash acquired, used for the acquisition of Lemsys, partially offset by $141.2 million and $5.4 million in proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities, respectively, and proceeds from life insurance of $0.3 million related to the cash surrender value from the cancellation of a Teradyne owned life insurance policy.  



Financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 used cash of $199.8 million, due to $156.5 million used for the repurchase of 4.5 million shares of common stock at an average price of $35.12 per share, $27.6 million used for a payment related to MiR and Universal Robots acquisition contingent consideration, $15.6 million used for dividend payments, and $14.3 million used for payments related to net settlements of employee stock compensation awards, partially offset by $14.3 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase and stock option plans.  



Operating activities during the three months ended April 1, 2018 used cash of $81.9 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $212.6 million. This was due to a $162.4 million increase in operating assets and a $50.2 million decrease in operating liabilities.  



The increase in operating assets was primarily due to a $140.7 million increase in accounts receivable due to an increase in shipments during the last month of the quarter and the impact of the new revenue recognition standard, a $21.0 million increase in inventories, and a $0.7 million increase in prepayments and other assets.  



The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $56.3 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $12.1 million decrease in income taxes, a $7.5 million decrease in other accrued liabilities, and $1.0 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $17.1 million increase in accounts payable and a $9.6 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments.  



Investing activities during the three months ended April 1, 2018 provided cash of $462.9 million, due to $800.7 million and $212.7 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, respectively, partially offset by $490.3 million used for purchases of marketable securities, $34.8 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment and $25.4 million used for the acquisition of Energid.  



Financing activities during the three months ended April 1, 2018 used cash of $174.4 million, due to $134.3 million used for the repurchase of 2.9 million shares of common stock at an average price of $45.69 per share, $19.6 million used for payment related to net settlement of employee stock compensation awards, $17.6 million used for dividend payments, and $13.6 million used for a payment related to Universal Robots acquisition contingent consideration, partially offset by $10.7 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase and stock option plans.  



In January 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $15.6 million.  



In January 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the three months ended April 1, 2018 were $17.6 million.  





Table of Contents 



In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock. We intend to repurchase $500 million in 2019. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we repurchased 4.5 million shares of common stock for $156.5 million at an average price of $35.12 per share. During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we repurchased 2.9 million shares of common stock for $134.3 million at an average price of $45.69 per share. The cumulative repurchases under the $1.5 billion stock repurchase program as of March 31, 2019 totaled 26.1 million shares of common stock for $979.9 million at an average price per share of $37.55.  



While we declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, we may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future. Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, which will consider, among other things, our earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.  



We believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance will be sufficient to pay our quarterly dividend, execute our authorized share repurchase program and meet our working capital and expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. Inflation has not had a significant long-term impact on earnings.  



Equity Compensation Plans  







Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  





 Item 2:  



Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock. We intend to repurchase $500 million in 2019. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we repurchased 4.5 million shares of common stock for $156.5 million at an average price of $35.12 per share. During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we repurchased 2.9 million shares of common stock for $134.3 million at an average price of $45.69 per share. The cumulative repurchases under the $1.5 billion stock repurchase program as of March 31, 2019 totaled 26.1 million shares of common stock for $979.9 million at an average price per share of $37.55.  









Includes three hundred ninety one thousand shares at an average price of $36.60 withheld from employees for the payment of taxes.  



We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.  



 Item 4:  



Mine Safety Disclosures  



Not Applicable  





Table of Contents 



 Item 6:  



Exhibits  







Mangement Contract and Compensatory Plan  





Table of Contents 



SIGNATURES  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  





