fls.txt
Substantial risks and uncertainties unknown at this time could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the continued acceptance of the Company’s distribution channel by vendors and customers, the timely availability and acceptance of new products, product mix, market conditions, competitive pricing pressures, contribution of key vendor relationships and support programs, including vendor rebates and discounts, as well as factors that affect the software industry in general and other factors generally.


item1.txt
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02").
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term from operating leases.
For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities.
This update still requires modified retrospective transition; however, it adds the option to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment in the current period instead of at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.
The Company adopted the new accounting standard on January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective transition option.
The new standard provides optional practical expedients in transition, which the Company has elected as a package permitting the Company to not reassess under the new standard prior conclusions regarding lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
Also, in accordance with the new standard, the Company has elected in transition and for an ongoing basis not to apply the recognition requirements for all short-term leases.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of approximately $3.0 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases.
The Company also recognized corresponding ROU assets, net of lease incentives of approximately $2.2 million.
In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No. 2016-13").


item2.txt
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 million and less than $0.1 million during the three months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.9 million 
Software and hardware products for which sales and cost of sales are reported on separate line items are referred to as being recorded on a gross basis.
June 30, 2019 was $1.9 million compared to a net loss for the same period in the prior year of $1.1 million.
Diluted income per share for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $0.41 compared to diluted loss per share of $0.25 for the same period in the prior year.
Net income excluding the impact of separation expenses, net of taxes (non-GAAP) for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $1.9 million compared to $0.9 million for the same period in the prior year.
Diluted earnings per share excluding separation expenses, net of taxes (non-GAAP) for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $0.43 compared to $0.20 for the same period in the prior year.
The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations.
In limited circumstances, the Company offers extended payment terms to customers for periods of 12 to 48 months.
Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2018-07, “Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting” (“ASU 2018-07”), which aligns the measurement and classification guidance for share-based payments to nonemployees with that for employees, with certain exceptions.
We define adjusted gross billings as net sales in accordance with U.S. GAAP, adjusted for the cost of sales related to Software – security or highly interdependent with support and maintenance, support or other services.
We provided a reconciliation of adjusted gross billings to net sales, which is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure.
In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate adjusted gross billings of product and services or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.
We use net income excluding separation expenses, net of taxes and diluted earnings per share excluding separation expenses, net of taxes as supplemental measures of our performance to gain insight into comparison of our businesses’ profitability when compared to the prior year.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
(1)    Includes 1,887 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.


