fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.


item1.txt
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Effective January 1, 2018 we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with customers, or Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 606 using the full retrospective method, as discussed in detail in Note 5.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met.
The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP.
The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.
In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2018-07, “Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting,” which aligns the measurement and classification guidance for share-based payments to nonemployees with that for employees, with certain exceptions.
It expands the scope of ASC 718 to include share-based payments granted to nonemployees in exchange for goods or services used or consumed in the entity’s own operations and supersedes the guidance in ASC 505-50.
The ASU retains the existing cost attribution guidance, which requires entities to recognize compensation cost for nonemployee awards in the same period and in the same manner (i.e., capitalize or expense) they would if they paid cash for the goods or services, but it moves the guidance to ASC 718.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance.


item2.txt
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 million and $0.02 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.1 million for the quarter
Under ASC 606 net sales for certain maintenance, service and security products we sell are recorded net of the related cost of sales.
Software and hardware products for which sales and cost of sales are reported on separate line items are referred to as being recorded on a gross basis.
The Company reported net income of $1.3 million for each of the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, stock-based compensation, contingencies and litigation.
The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations.
The Company’s accounts receivable long-term are discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale based on prevailing rates.
The net proceeds from such sales are included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows as changes in accounts receivable.
In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.
The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No. 2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition for accounts receivable.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.


item3.txt



item4.txt
As required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Exchange Act, our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures”, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this report.


part2.txt
(1)    Includes 1,888 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.


