fls.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
(a) Basic per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B shares.
Diluted earnings per share for Class B shares under the two-class method are $0.18 and $0.08 for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, and $0.35 and $0.15 for the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at January 31, 2018, the results of operations for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 and cash flows for the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017.
The Company’s results for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (“American Software” or the “Company”).
Revenue derived from maintenance contracts primarily includes telephone consulting, product updates, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.
In situations where we bundle all or a portion of the maintenance fee with the license fee, VSOE for maintenance is determined based on prices when sold separately.
Unbilled license fee accounts receivable represents revenue that has been recognized, but under the terms of the license agreement, which include specified payment terms that are considered normal and customary, certain payments have not yet been invoiced to the customers.


item2.txt
Corporate capital spending trends and commitments are the primary determinants of the size of the market for business software.
In January 2018, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) provided an update to the World Economic Outlook (“WEO”) for the 2018 and 2019 world economic growth forecast.
The revision reflects increased global growth momentum and the expected impact of the recently approved U.S. tax policy changes.” For the remainder of fiscal 2018, we expect the global economy to improve when compared to the prior year, which could result in an improved selling environment.
We believe the improvement in economic conditions may be driving some businesses to invest in achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our Logility supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
The SCM segment, consists of Logility, which provides supply chain optimization and advance retail planning solutions, as an integrated suite of sales and operations planning, demand optimization, inventory optimization, manufacturing planning and scheduling, supply optimization, retail allocation and merchandise planning and transportation optimization, as well as (i) DMI, which provides collaborative supply chain solutions to streamline and optimize the forecasting, inventory, production, supply, allocation, distribution and management of products between trading partners, (ii) New Generation Computing (“NGC”), which provides cloud solutions for supply chain management, product lifecycle management, quality control, vendor compliance and enterprise resource planning for both retailers and manufacturers in the apparel, sewn products and furniture industries, and, (iii) Halo, which provides advanced analytics and business intelligence solutions for the supply chain market.
We account for the development costs of software intended for sale in accordance with the Intangibles—Goodwill and Other topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
More specifically, in any acquisition we will face risks and challenges associated with the uncertain value of the acquired business or assets, the difficulty of assimilating operations and personnel, integrating acquired technologies and products and maintaining the loyalty of the customers of the acquired business.
The Company has performed a review of the requirements of the new revenue standard and is monitoring the activity of the FASB as it relates to specific interpretive guidance.
Therefore, the new standard would require additional disclosures of the amount by which each financial statement line item is affected in the fiscal year 2019 reporting period.
In assessing the new standard, the Company has completed its review of representative contracts and identification of policy and differences resulting from the adoption of the new revenue standard.
The Company has also evaluated and is in the process of documenting internal controls over financial reporting surrounding the adoption of the standard and periodic reporting and disclosures.
The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption of this update on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The 14% increase in revenues over the three months ended January 31, 2018 when compared to the same period last year was attributable primarily to a 50% increase in license fee revenues and, to a lesser extent, a 9% increase in services and other revenues and a 5% increase in maintenance revenues.
The increase in license fee revenues was attributable to entering into several license fee agreements during the quarter in our SCM segment, due to an increase in general economic activity and higher overall business information technology spending from the US tax reform.


item3.txt
Foreign Currency In the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, we generated approximately 20% and 20%, respectively, of our revenues outside the United States.
However, expenses incurred in connection with these sales are typically denominated in the local currencies.


item4.txt
Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.


part2.txt
Item 1.


