fls.txt
The Company evaluates the profitability of each tax-paying component on a historic cumulative basis and a forward-looking basis in the course of performing this analysis.


item1.txt
The Company determined that the cryogenics business met the “held for sale” criteria and the “discontinued operations” criteria in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Boards (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, Presentation of Financial Statements, (“FASB ASC 205”) as of December 31, 2018.
The discussion in the notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted, relate solely to the Company's continuing operations.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.1 million and $2.0 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
As of December 31, 2018, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model which applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company adopted this standard effective October 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method and has only applied this method to contracts that were not completed as of the effective date and all new contracts initiated on or after the effective date.
Upon adoption the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $0.9 million, net of tax adjustment of $0.4 million, which resulted in an increase to the opening accumulated deficit balance on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily driven by deferral of previously recognized revenue within the Brooks Life Sciences segment, offset by deferral of previously recognized commission expense within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.
Upon the adoption of ASC 606, the Company is no longer required to defer revenue in accordance with billing constraints defined in the contract with the customer.
The change impacted the Company’s semiconductor contamination control solutions revenue stream as the Company is now permitted to recognize revenue in an amount equivalent to the transfer of control that has occurred.
As a result, upon adopting the standard the Company deferred previously recognized registration fee revenue for contracts not completed as of the effective date.
The standard requires certain costs incurred to obtain a contract to be recorded as an asset when incurred and expensed as the transfer of control of the underlying performance obligations occur or over the estimated customer life, depending on the nature of the underlying contract.
As a result, upon adopting the standard the Company deferred previously recognized costs for contracts not completed as of the effective date.
Additional changes to the Company’s accumulated deficit were made as the result of adopting ASC 606.
These changes, which resulted in a cumulative decrease to accumulated deficit of $0.2 million as of October 1, 2018, were driven by the identification of additional performance obligations as well as changes in the transfer of control of certain performance obligations across both the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group and Brooks Life Science segments.
The additional changes to the Company’s accumulated deficit included a cumulative decrease to accumulated deficit of $0.2 million from discontinued operations.
The difference between the reported results and the results without the adoption of ASC 606 was primarily driven from the elimination of revenue constraints due to billing limitations that resulted in acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and the deferral of fees associated with the registration of biological samples within the Brooks Life Science segment.


item2.txt
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017.
Such factors include the Risk Factors which are set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, or the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and which are incorporated herein by reference.
Results of Operations- Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased to $179.4 million, or by 26%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Gross margin was 40.2% for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 38.1% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, which resulted in an increase in gross profit of $17.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 as compared to the corresponding period of the fiscal year 2018.
Operating income was $5.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $4.9 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Income from continuing operations was $6.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 as compared to $1.6 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase of $4.6 million was primarily attributable to an increase in the tax benefit of $5.2 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Cash Flows and Liquidity- Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $138.3 million at December 31, 2018 as compared to $251.2 million at September 30, 2018.
The decrease in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $112.9 million was primarily attributable to net cash outflows of $445.2 million to acquire GENEWIZ, cash dividends paid of $7.2 million and capital expenditures of $3.6 million, partially offset by cash inflows from proceeds received from the amendment to our existing term loan of $340.5 million, proceeds from the sales and maturities of marketable securities of $51.5 million and net cash inflows from operating activities of $6.3 million.


item3.txt
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we incurred interest expense of $5.3 million on the term loan.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.


