fls.txt
The Company evaluates the realizability of its deferred tax assets by tax-paying component and assesses the need for a valuation allowance on an annual and quarterly basis.


item1.txt
The Company determined that the cryogenics business met the “held for sale” criteria and the “discontinued operations” criteria in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Boards (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, Presentation of Financial Statements, (“FASB ASC 205”) as of September 30, 2018.
The discussion in the notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted, relate solely to the Company's continuing operations.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company identified a misclassification related to the presentation of the product and service revenue and the cost of product and service revenue related to GENEWIZ in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
The Company concluded this misclassification was not material individually or in the aggregate to the financial statements presented for the three months ended December 31, 2018, and therefore, amendments of the previously filed Form 10-Q for the three months ended December 31, 2018 was not required.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.6 million and $0.5 million, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 and $0.6 million and $2.5 million, respectively, during the six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
The ASU clarifies that companies are exempt from making the interim period transition disclosures required by ASC 250, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, for the period in which a change in accounting principle is made as a result of adopting ASC 842.
This interim period disclosure exemption is consistent with ASC 842, which already allowed companies to exclude the annual effect of the accounting change on income from continuing operations, net income and per-share amounts for periods post-adoption.
The amendment removes disclosure requirement for accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized over the next year, information about plan assets to be returned to the entity, and the effects of a one-percentage-point change on the assumed health care costs and the effect of this change in rates on service cost, interest cost, and the benefit obligation for postretirement health care benefits.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model which applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company adopted this standard effective October 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method and has only applied this method to contracts that were not completed as of the effective date and all new contracts initiated on or after the effective date.
Upon adoption the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $0.9 million, net of tax adjustment of $0.4 million, which resulted in an increase to the opening accumulated deficit balance on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily driven by deferral of previously recognized revenue within the Brooks Life Sciences segment, offset by deferral of previously recognized commission expense within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.
Upon the adoption of ASC 606, the Company is no longer required to defer revenue in accordance with billing constraints defined in the contract with the customer.
The change impacted the Company’s semiconductor contamination control solutions revenue stream as under this new guidance, the Company recognizes revenue in an amount equivalent to the transfer of control that has occurred.
As a result, upon adopting the standard the Company deferred previously recognized registration fee revenue for contracts not completed as of the effective date.
The standard requires certain costs incurred to obtain a contract to be recorded as an asset when incurred and expensed as the transfer of control of the underlying performance obligations occur or over the estimated customer life, depending on the nature of the underlying contract.


item2.txt
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended March 31, 2018.
Such factors include the Risk Factors which are set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, or the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and which are incorporated herein by reference.
Gross margin was 40.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to 39.7% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $18.1 million.
Operating expenses were $66.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $52.1 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $14.8 million.
Operating income was $13.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 as compared to $10.3 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Loss from continuing operations was $2.8 million for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, which includes a $9.1 million loss on extinguishment of debt.
This compares to income from continuing operations of $62.5 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, which included the reversal of the valuation allowance reserve against U.S. deferred income tax assets of $58.0 million.
Results of Operations - Revenue for the six months ended March 31, 2019 increased to $377.8 million, or by 26%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Gross margin was 40.4% for the six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to 38.9% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $36.0 million.


item3.txt
At March 31, 2019, the outstanding term loans principal balance was $543.5 million, net of unamortized deferred financing costs of $6.1 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt



