fls.txt



item1.txt
Foreign currency exchange losses generated from the settlement and remeasurement of these transactions are recognized in earnings and presented within “Other expenses, net” in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $2.0 million and $0.5 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
The forward contract arrangements that the Company enters into typically mature in three months or less.
The fair values of the forward contracts are recorded in the Company’s accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets as "Prepaid expenses and other current assets" and "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities".
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
The Company adopted the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 which had no impact on its financial position and results of operations.
In accordance with the provisions of the newly issued guidance, a lessee should recognize at the inception of the arrangement a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability initially measured at the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its financial position and results of operations.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its financial position and results of operations.
The Company adopted the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 which did not have a significant impact on its financial position and results of operations.
The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The Company has initiated the evaluation of the potential impact of adopting the new guidance on its financial position and results of operations, but has not yet completed such assessment or determined the transition method that will be used to adopt the new guidance.


item2.txt
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016.
We primarily serve the semiconductor capital equipment market and sample management market for life sciences.
In the life sciences sample management market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.
We expect the life sciences sample management market to remain one of our principal markets for our product and service offerings and provide favorable opportunities for the growth of our overall business.
Over the past several years, we have acquired and developed essential capabilities required to strategically address the sample management needs across multiple end markets within the life sciences industry.
In October 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited, or 4titude, a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications, for a total purchase price of $65.2 million, net of cash acquired.
Please refer to Note 4, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on this transaction.
During fiscal years 2017 and 2016, more than 23% of our cumulative research and development spending was focused on innovating and advancing solutions in the life sciences sample management market.
We expect to continue investing in research and development and making strategic acquisitions and other investments with the objective of expanding our offerings in the life sciences sample management market.
We report our financial results for two operating and reportable segments which consist of Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
Cash Flows and Liquidity- Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $231.9 million at December 31, 2017 as compared to $104.3 million at September 30, 2017.


item3.txt
We have transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Legal Proceedings   


