fls.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Inc. (“Cables Unlimited”), Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc. (“Comnet”), and Rel-Tech Electronics, Inc. (“Rel-Tech”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of RF Industries, Ltd. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, the Company did not recognize any royalty income.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $66,000 and $128,000 of royalty income, respectively, for RadioMobile, amounts of which have been included within discontinued operations.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $10,000 of income from sale of equipment for the Bioconnect division, which has been included within discontinued operations.
One vendor accounted for 46% of inventory purchases for the three months ended April 30, 2018.
This same vendor accounted for 38% of inventory purchases for the six months ended April 30, 2018.
One vendor accounted for 14% of inventory purchases for the three months ended April 30, 2017.
Long-term portion of notes receivable of $0 and $21,000 is recorded in other assets at April 30, 2018 and October 31, 2017, respectively.
The Company’s current stock incentive plan provides for the granting of qualified and nonqualified options to the Company’s officers, directors and employees.


item2.txt
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.
The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
If a deduction reported on a tax return for an equity-based incentive award exceeds the cumulative compensation cost for those instruments recognized for financial reporting purposes, any resulting realized tax benefit that exceeds the previously calculated deferred tax asset for those instruments is considered an excess tax benefit, and is recognized as additional paid-in capital.
·As of April 30, 2018, the Company had $27.9 million in current assets and $10.4 million in current liabilities.
Subsequent to the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017, the Company experienced a substantial increase in orders for its products in the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment.
As a result of these increased orders, the Company’s backlog had increased to $20.2 million as of January 31, 2018.
Despite shipping most of the January 31, 2018 backlog in the three month period ended April 30, 2018, the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment backlog stood at $9.5 million as of April 30, 2018 as a result of additional new orders received during the second quarter.
The Company generated cash of $2.5 million during the six months ended April 30, 2018 due largely to the impact of increased sales, which resulted in net income of $3.7 million.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.


part2.txt
Part II.
Item 1.


