fls.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are normal and recurring, have been included in order to make the information not misleading.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that RF Industries, Ltd. formed for the sole purpose of acquiring the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P.
The acquisition of the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P. was completed on March 15, 2019.
Certain amounts in the prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and notes have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation of continuing operations and discontinued operations (see Note 3).
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc., its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors.
The results of C Enterprises, Inc.’s operations subsequent to March 15, 2019 have been included in the results of the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment (“Custom Cabling segment”) as well as in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations.
Two vendors accounted for 11% and 10% of inventory purchases for the three months ended April 30, 2019.
For the three months ended April 30, 2018, one vendor accounted for 51% of inventory purchases.


item2.txt
The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations.
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors.
The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.
·As of April 30, 2019, the Company had $30.5 million in current assets and $4.7 million in current liabilities.
As a result, the Company had $10 million of backlog as of the current quarter ended April 30, 2019.
The Company used cash of $2.6 million during the six months ended April 30, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end.
Net income of $1.7 million, with an added increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.3 million from depreciation and amortization and $0.2 million from stock-based compensation expense, was offset by an increase in accounts receivable ($2.4 million) and inventories ($0.3 million) as well as a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payout of prior year bonuses ($0.8 million) and an increase in accounts payable ($0.7 million).
The Company used $0.8 million during the six months ended April 30, 2019 for capital expenditures and the purchase of the assets and business of C Enterprises.
These net cash outlays were partially offset by $0.4 million that the Company received from the exercise of stock options.
In the past, the Company has financed some of its equipment and furnishings requirements through capital leases.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.


part2.txt
Part II.
Item 1.


