fls.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and two wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are normal and recurring, have been included in order to make the information not misleading.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported consolidated net income.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Two vendors each accounted for 17% of inventory purchases for the three months ended January 31, 2019.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, one vendor accounted for 30% of inventory purchases.
The Company has arrangements with these vendors to purchase products based on purchase orders periodically issued by the Company.
Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding increased by the effects of assuming that other potentially dilutive securities (such as stock options) outstanding during the period had been exercised and the treasury stock method had been applied.
On December 13, 2017, the Company granted 80,000 incentive stock options to an employee.


item2.txt
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.
The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations.
We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.
For the three months ended January 31, 2019, most of the Company’s revenues were generated from the Custom Cabling segment from the sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies, and wiring harnesses (which accounted for 69% of the Company’s total sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019).
·As of January 31, 2019, the Company had $28.6 million in current assets and $3.8 million in current liabilities.
During the year ended October 31, 2018 (“fiscal year 2018”), the Company received an influx of sales orders from customers that resulted in a sharp increase in sales and backlog from the prior fiscal year ended October 31, 2017.
As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of January 31, 2019, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the balance of the current fiscal year.
The Company used cash of $2.3 million during the three months ended January 31, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end.
Net income of $0.6 million, with an added increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.1 million from depreciation and amortization and $0.1 million from stock-based compensation expense, was offset by an increase in accounts receivable ($1.4 million) and inventories ($1.1 million) as well as a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payout of prior year bonuses ($1.3 million) and an increase in accounts payable ($0.4 million).


item3.txt



item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.
Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems, consolidating activities, and migrating processes.


part2.txt
Part II.
Item 1A.


