fls.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are normal and recurring, have been included in order to make the information not misleading.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019 include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that RF Industries, Ltd. formed for the sole purpose of acquiring the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P.
The acquisition of the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P. was completed on March 15, 2019.
Level 3 - Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.
As of July 31, 2019 and October 31, 2018, the carrying amounts reflected in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximated their carrying value due to their short-term nature.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc., its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors.
The results of C Enterprises, Inc.’s operations subsequent to March 15, 2019 have been included in the results of the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment (“Custom Cabling segment”) as well as in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations.
For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019, C Enterprises, Inc. contributed $2.9 million and $4.5 million of revenue, respectively.
Two vendors accounted for 23% and 14% of inventory purchases for the three months ended July 31, 2019.
For the nine months ended July 31, 2019, the same two vendors accounted for 17% and 14% of inventory purchases, respectively.


item2.txt
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors.
The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.
● As of July 31, 2019, the Company had $32.1 million in current assets and $5.4 million in current liabilities.
As a result, the Company had $8 million of backlog as of the current quarter ended July 31, 2019.
As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of July 31, 2019, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the remainder of the current fiscal year.
The Company used cash of $3.0 million in operating activities during the nine months ended July 31, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end.
Net income of $2.7 million, with an added increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.4 million from depreciation and amortization and $0.3 million from stock-based compensation expense, was offset by an increase in accounts receivable ($4.4 million) and inventories ($0.5 million) as well as a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payout of prior year bonuses ($0.9 million) and an increase in accounts payable ($0.1 million).
The Company used $0.9 million during the nine months ended July 31, 2019 for capital expenditures primarily for the purpose of increasing production and the purchase of the assets and business of C Enterprises.
These net cash outlays were partially offset by $0.4 million that the Company received from the exercise of stock options.
In the past, the Company has financed some of its equipment and furnishings requirements through capital leases.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.


part2.txt
Part II.
Item 1.


