fls.txt
These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.


item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $5.9 million and $4.5 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $9.0 million and $8.8 million, respectively.
For the three months ended and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance were $0.9 million and $23.4 million, respectively.
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU assets and lease liabilities because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 day to 11 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 14 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year.
We do not have any leases that have not yet commenced due to construction or design of the underlying asset.
We recognize payments related to short-term leases (less than one year) as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term and variable lease payments in the period in which the obligation for those payments were incurred.
As such, our short-term lease expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $1.4 million and $4.2 million, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, we incurred variable lease costs of $0.5 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
This acquisition strengthens our ability to help key government agencies implement new automation techniques that enable intelligence analysts to more effectively navigate large amounts of data and to distill the critical information that informs actionable intelligence necessary to make mission-critical decisions.
The components of other intangible assets associated with the acquisition were customer relationships and backlog valued at $9.6 million and $2.3 million, respectively.


item2.txt
•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts; •Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; •Increased exposure to risks associated with conducting business internationally.
As such, our business is impacted by the overall U.S. government budget and our ability to match our capabilities and offerings to the U.S. government's spending priorities.
If Congress is unable to approve appropriations by November 21st, the U.S. Government and its agencies may be subjected to funding restrictions through a CR or, if there is a failure to pass interim funding, a government shutdown.
This change has caused a net increase in the reported cost of services and a net decrease in reported general and administrative expenses in 2019 as compared to 2018; however, total operating costs were not affected by this change.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 39% for the same period in 2018.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings on our revolving line of credit to fund our acquisitions.
Our effective income tax rates were 26% and 24% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The primary driver of the increase in our effective tax rate was the impact of discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2018, which were more favorable than discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2019.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues was revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisitions, which was offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 47% and 48% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Our exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest rates for borrowing under our revolving credit facility.


item4.txt
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt



