We recommend that you read these condensed consolidated financial statements in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
Revenue Recognition - On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition.
Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $3.3 million as a result of applying ASC 606.
At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations.
Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation.For agencies operating under the CR, funding appropriations are expected to be debated by Congress after the midterm elections.
We expect future appropriations to be debated with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenues from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and acquisitions.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 39% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 38% for the same period in 2017.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract.
Our effective income tax rates were 24% and 35% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The primary driver of our increase in revenue relates to revenues from new contract awards and growth on existing contracts, including higher levels of material procurements, and acquisitions.