We recommend that you read these condensed consolidated financial statements in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
Revenue Recognition - On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition.
Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased $0.9 million as a result of applying ASC 606.
At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations.
It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process.
When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation.
Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time.The U.S. Government fiscal year (GFY) 2018 appropriations and U.S. GFY 2019 budget request include near term expansions of budgets for the Department of Defense aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, homeland and border security, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 37% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 36% fo the same period in 2017.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract.
Our effective income tax rates were 28% and 37% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The primary driver of our increase in revenue relates to revenues from new contract awards, growth on existing contracts, including higher levels of material procurements, and acquisitions.