fls.txt



item1.txt
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Teradyne considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer.
Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Typically acceptance of Teradyne’s products and services is a formality as Teradyne delivers similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications.
In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, Teradyne will defer revenue recognition until customer acceptance.
The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and timing of revenue recognition.
not obligate Teradyne to provide a separate service to the customer and it cannot be purchased separately.
Teradyne’s hardware is recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control to the customer.
Customers have the option to purchase an extended warranty, which extends the warranty period for systems and robots beyond the one-year standard warranty.
The relative standalone selling price of the extended warranty is recognized ratably over the course of the extended warranty based on months completed.
Teradyne sells training and applications support to customers either in standalone transactions or included with system purchases.
These services include telephone support, bug fixes, and when-and-if available upgrades.
Standalone selling price for PCS is not directly observable as Teradyne does not sell these services separately.


item2.txt
Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q which are not historical facts, so called “forward-looking statements,” are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
See also Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
During the first quarter of 2018, demand outlook for mobile device test capacity in 2018 declined sharply for our Semiconductor Test business.
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company.
MiR and Energid are included in our Industrial Automation segment.
customer obtains control of promised goods or services.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for fulfillment of the performance obligation.
Our primary source of revenue will continue to be from the sale of systems, instruments, robots, and the delivery of services.


item3.txt
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of hypothetical 10% changes of Teradyne’s stock price as of the end of the second quarter of 2018 and the estimated impact on the fair value of the Notes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Our business operations and supply chain are global and may be disrupted by the implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products.


