fls.txt



item1.txt
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Teradyne also utilized the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance which included the carry-forward of historical lease classification.
Operating lease liabilities were calculated using the discount rate on January 1, 2019.
Teradyne determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.
The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use by Teradyne.
As Teradyne is typically unable to determine the implicit rate, Teradyne uses an incremental borrowing rate based on the lease term and economic environment at commencement date.
Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred.
The ROU asset is initially measured as the amount of lease liability, adjusted for any initial lease costs, prepaid lease payments, and reduced by any lease incentives.
non-lease components such as common area maintenance.
one-step impairment test will be applied to goodwill at all reporting units, even those with zero or negative carrying amounts.
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
Lemsys strengthens Teradyne’s position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications.
Teradyne’s final allocation of the purchase price was goodwill of $1.4 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $4.6 million with an average estimated useful life of 5.2 years, and $3.1 million of net tangible assets.
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots Aps (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.
MiR’s products will help expand the Industrial Automation segment, which is a key component of Teradyne’s growth strategy.
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.


item2.txt
10-Q which are not historical facts, so called “forward-looking statements,” are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
The total purchase price was approximately $197.8 million, which included cash paid of approximately $145.2 million and $52.6 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes through 2020.
Contingent consideration for 2018 was $30.8 million and was paid in March 2019.
The maximum payment for the remaining MiR contingent consideration that could be paid is $81.0 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.
Compliance with these laws has not significantly limited our sales, but could significantly limit them in the future.


