The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
Noncontrolling interest amounts of $4.9 million and $3.8 million, net of tax, for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $11.9 million and $11.7 million, net of tax, for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The company expects to adopt the guidance on a prospective basis on the effective date.
In June 2016, with amendments in 2018 and 2019, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance also made some changes to lessor accounting, including elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company made a policy election to not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
As a lessee, at adoption, the company recognized operating and financing ROU assets of $4.8 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, and operating and financing lease liabilities of $5.1 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively.
In August 2018, the FASB issued guidance on a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in cloud-computing arrangements that are hosted by a vendor.
The company adopted the guidance on January 1, 2019 on a prospective basis.Item 2.
There is no change to the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
The company’s reportable segment financial results reflect pre-tax operating earnings from continuing operations, consistent with the company’s management and measurement system.
In the second quarter of 2019, the company reported $19.2 billion in revenue, $2.5 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.8 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.81 as reported and $3.17 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
$2.9 billion in cash from operations, $2.4 billion in free cash flow and delivered shareholder returns of $1.8 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
The company has taken significant actions to improve its position over time including the completion of the two software asset divestitures and workforce actions in the second quarter as well as the acquisition of Red Hat on July 9, 2019.
Over the trailing 12 months, total cloud revenue was $19.5 billion, up 5 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency) year to year.
Total expense and other (income) decreased 2.8 percent in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.