Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“Forward-Looking Statements”) with respect to the business of the Company.There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, except as discussed in “Recently Adopted Accounting Standards” below.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a “right-of-use” model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses will depend on classification as a finance or operating lease.
In addition, we elected the transition package of three practical expedients permitted within the standard, which eliminates the requirements to reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
Further, we elected a short-term lease exception policy, permitting us to not apply the recognition requirements of this standard to short-term leases (i.e. leases with terms of 12 months or less) and an accounting policy to account for lease and non-lease components as a single component for certain classes of assets.
The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations that have not been satisfied as of September 30, 2019 related to contracts that exceed one year in duration amounted to $15.7 million, with expected contract expiration dates that range from 2020 - 2025.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our available-for-sale securities primarily consisted of investments held in a rabbi trust which are intended to fund the Company’s Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”) obligations.
These securities are measured at fair value using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1) inputs and amounted to $1.2 million at September 30, 2019 and $1.4 million at December 31, 2018.
The Company does not have any financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis categorized as Level 3, and there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 or September 30, 2018.
There were no financial assets accounted for at fair value on a nonrecurring basis as of September 30, 2019 or December 31, 2018.All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
Bel’s portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.
The Company has also experienced margin pressure throughout 2019 due to lower sales volumes and high material costs from 2018 which continue to run through the Company’s statement of operations.
Sales declines in each of our segments during the third quarter of 2019 reflected lower sales into our distribution channel as our distribution partners continue to work down their level of inventory on hand.
Net sales and (loss) income from operations by operating segment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were as follows.Item 1.