fls.txt
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these Forward-Looking Statements which may be necessary to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Any Forward-Looking Statement made by the Company is based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made.


item1.txt
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The Company’s significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2019, except as discussed in Note 12, Leases, related to the adoption of the new lease standard.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a “right-of-use” model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Further, we elected a short-term lease exception policy, permitting us to not apply the recognition requirements of this standard to short-term leases (i.e. leases with terms of 12 months or less) and an accounting policy to account for lease and non-lease components as a single component for certain classes of assets.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets in the amount of $20.7 million and lease liabilities related to our operating leases in the amount of $21.0 million on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019.
The standard did not materially affect the Company’s consolidated net earnings or have any impact on cash flows.
It is expected that 47% of this aggregate amount will be recognized in 2020, 48% will be recognized in 2021 and the remainder will be recognized in years beyond 2021.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our available-for-sale securities primarily consisted of investments held in a rabbi trust which are intended to fund the Company’s Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”) obligations.
These securities are measured at fair value using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1) inputs and amounted to $1.3 million at March 31, 2019 and $1.4 million at December 31, 2018.
The Company does not have any financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis categorized as Level 3, and there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 during the three months ended March 31, 2019 or March 31, 2018.
There were no financial assets accounted for at fair value on a nonrecurring basis as of March 31, 2019 or December 31, 2018.
The Company has other financial instruments, such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, accrued expenses and notes payable, which are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis but are recorded at amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or short-term nature.


item2.txt
All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
We also saw increased demand for our connectivity products for use in commercial aerospace applications, particularly from our after-market customers.
·   Backlog – Our backlog of orders amounted to $166.8 million at March 31, 2019, a decline of $4.4 million, or 3%, from December 31, 2018.
Since year-end, we saw an 11% increase in the backlog for our Connectivity Solutions products, driven by additional orders from our commercial aerospace and distribution customers.
·   Pricing and Availability of Materials – While material cost and availability for certain components have started to ease, the higher raw material costs which were in place during 2018, particularly related to resistors, capacitors and mosfets, are still running through our statement of operations as we ship the balance of our inventory on hand from 2018.
Lead times continue to be extended for mosfets and costs for those components remain elevated.
As a result, the Company’s material costs as a percentage of sales increased to 41.8% during the first quarter of 2019 from 40.8% during the first quarter of 2018.
·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first quarter of 2019 increased from 11.3% of sales during the first quarter of 2018 to 11.5% of sales during the first quarter of 2019, primarily due to minimum wage increases in Mexico which went into effect on January 1, 2019 as well as minimum wage increases in the PRC which went into effect in the first and third quarters of 2018.
·   Impact of Foreign Currency – During the first quarter of 2019, the Company realized foreign exchange transactional losses of $0.6 million, offset by lower labor and overhead costs of $1.7 million related to favorable fluctuations in exchange rates versus 2018.
Due to the changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, translating our financial results and the revaluation of certain intercompany as well as third-party transactions to and from foreign currencies to U.S. dollars may result in a favorable or unfavorable impact to our consolidated statements of operations and cash flows.
Sales growth is also expected within the areas of commercial aerospace and key military platforms related to fighter jet, munition and encryption applications later in the year for our connectivity solutions products, and our power products are well positioned on several new HEV applications.


item3.txt
During the first quarter of 2019, the U.S. Dollar was stronger against most other currencies in which the Company pays its expenses.


part2.txt
The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 13 of the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, under “Legal Proceedings”, as set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


