The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these Forward-Looking Statements which may be necessary to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The Company’s significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2019, except as discussed in “Recently Adopted Accounting Standards” below.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a “right-of-use” model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Further, we elected a short-term lease exception policy, permitting us to not apply the recognition requirements of this standard to short-term leases (i.e. leases with terms of 12 months or less) and an accounting policy to account for lease and non-lease components as a single component for certain classes of assets.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets in the amount of $20.7 million and lease liabilities related to our operating leases in the amount of $21.0 million on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019.
The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations that have not been satisfied as of June 30, 2019 related to contracts that exceed one year in duration amounted to $14.3 million, with expected contract expiration dates that range from 2020 - 2025.
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our available-for-sale securities primarily consisted of investments held in a rabbi trust which are intended to fund the Company’s Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”) obligations.
These securities are measured at fair value using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1) inputs and amounted to $1.3 million at June 30, 2019 and $1.4 million at December 31, 2018.All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
Bel’s portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
Since year-end, we saw an 8% increase in the backlog for our Connectivity Solutions products, primarily driven by additional orders from our military customers.
The backlog of orders for our Power Solutions and Protection products declined by 17% and backlog for our Magnetic Solutions products was down 29% from year-end 2018 levels.
·   Pricing and Availability of Materials – While material cost and availability for certain components have started to ease, the higher raw material costs which were in place during 2018, particularly related to resistors, capacitors and mosfets, are still running through our supply chain as we ship the balance of our inventory on hand from 2018.
Lead times continue to be extended for certain mosfets and costs for those components remain elevated.
As a result, the Company’s material costs as a percentage of sales increased to 43.8% during the first half of 2019 from 41.4% during the first half of 2018.