Financial Statements.
The Company has a controlling interest in Mission Support Alliance, LLC ("MSA"), a joint venture with Centerra Group, LLC.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest ("subsidiaries") and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
The Company also separately disclosed "Bad debt expense" on the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-02 ("ASC 842"), which supersedes the lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The Company did not elect the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term for existing leases and in assessing impairment for the ROU assets.
The Company also applies a single discount rate to a portfolio of leased assets with similar durations.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, which eliminates the requirement that a credit loss on a financial instrument be "probable" prior to recognition.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, which applies a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
A prospective approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date and loans and debt securities acquired with deteriorated credit quality.Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, we changed the composition of our Defense Solutions reportable segment to better align the operations within the reportable segment to the customers we serve.
In addition, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments.
In September 2018, Congress passed and the President signed a consolidated appropriations bill funding the Departments of Defense, Labor, and Health and Human Services for the full government fiscal year ("GFY") 2019.Item 1.