item1.txt
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09 ("ASC 606") and related amendments, which superseded all prior revenue recognition methods and industry-specific guidance.
The ASU was effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017.
Under ASC 606, revenues on certain units-of-delivery contracts are now recognized using an over-time model.
Early adoption is permitted.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2018-02, the Company's policy to release income tax effects in accumulated other comprehensive income is consistent with the underlying book method.
The Company has elected to adopt certain practical expediencies provided under ASC 842, including the option to not apply lease recognition for short-term leases, reassessment of whether expired or existing contracts contain leases, reassessment of lease classification for expired or existing leases, applying single discount rate to a portfolio of leased assets with similar durations, reassessing initial direct costs and combining lease and non-lease components in revenue arrangements.
In all cases, the Company assesses if the multiple promises should be accounted for as separate performance obligations or combined into a single performance obligation.
Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services.
The Company excludes any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price.
For certain product sales, the Company uses prices from other standalone sales.
Anticipated losses on service based contracts are recognized as incurred.
In such cases, the Company recognizes revenue on a net basis.
The Company's receivables include amounts billed and currently due from customers, amounts billable where the right to consideration is unconditional and amounts unbilled.
The Plan envisioned raising new equity combined with reduction of Plainfield's debt.
Amortization expense was $50 million and $151 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $76 million and $212 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
Software and technology intangible assets are amortized either on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or over their respective estimated useful lives in proportion to the pattern of economic benefit based on expected future discounted cash flows, as deemed appropriate.


item2.txt
Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Defense programs saw additional funding of $80 billion and $85 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, and non-defense spending increased by $63 billion and $68 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, over the caps established in the Budget Control Act of 2011.
All were funded at increased levels from the previous year.
There are now seven appropriations bills operating under a continuing resolution, which will expire on December 7, 2018.
The decrease in revenues in constant currency for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, was 1.6%, as compared to an actual decrease in revenues of 1.4%.
The increase in revenues for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to new awards and timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The increase in operating income for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, an increase in new awards, higher net profit write-ups and a decrease in bad debt expense, partially offset by a net decrease in program volumes.
The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act's ("Tax Act") reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate and a release of the valuation allowance related to capital loss carryforward utilization.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


