fls.txt



item1.txt
Financial Statements.
Leidos Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Leidos") is a holding company whose direct 100%-owned subsidiaries and principal operating companies are Leidos, Inc. and Leidos Innovations Corporation ("Leidos Innovations").
Leidos' domestic customers include the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, several other U.S. government civil agencies and state and local government agencies.
The Company operates in three reportable segments; Defense Solutions, Civil and Health.
Additionally, the Company separately presents the costs associated with corporate functions as Corporate.
The Company has a controlling interest in Mission Support Alliance, LLC ("MSA"), a joint venture with Centerra Group, LLC.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88% effective January 26, 2018.
The Company has consolidated the financial results for MSA into its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest (“subsidiaries”) and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying unaudited condensed financial information has been prepared in accordance with the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP").
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
Effective beginning of fiscal 2018, the Company established a new CAS structure and revised its disclosure statements accordingly to reflect the related cost accounting practice changes.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09 (ASC 606) and related amendments, which superseded all prior revenue recognition methods and industry-specific guidance.
In applying the revenue principles, an entity is required to identify the contract(s) with a customer, identify the performance obligations, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations and recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied (i.e., either over time or point in time).
ASC 606 provides companies an option of two transition methods, the full retrospective method, in which case the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented and the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the earliest period shown, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the date of initial application.
Effective December 30, 2017 (beginning of fiscal year 2018), the Company adopted the requirements of ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method.
The Company recorded a $1 million decrease to its beginning accumulated deficit as the cumulative impact of adoption of the new revenue standard.
In adopting ASC 606, the Company elected to use certain practical expedients permitted by the standard including using the portfolio approach where contracts with similar characteristics were assessed collectively to evaluate risk over the impact of ASC 606.


item2.txt
Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries.
U.S. Government Markets During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending, especially on national security, homeland security and intelligence, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. government.
On March 23, 2018, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Omnibus Appropriation Bill thereby funding the federal government through the end of the 2018 government fiscal year ("GFY").
All 12 Appropriation bills were funded and no federal department or agency is now operating under a continuing resolution.
The budget legislation passed earlier in the year suspended budget caps and included a two-year budget agreement that provides $300 billion in sequestration relief for defense and non-defense spending.
Our international business increases our exposure to international markets and the associated international regulatory and geopolitical risks.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


