item1.txt
While this activity did not have a material impact on the Company's reportable segments, prior year segment results have been recast to reflect this change.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
Early adoption is permitted.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-19 "Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses" to add clarity to certain areas within ASU 2016-13.
ROU assets are evaluated for impairment in a manner consistent with the treatment of other long-lived assets.
The related lease payments on the Company’s short-term facilities and equipment leases are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Changes in estimates related to contracts accounted for using the cost-to-cost method of accounting are recognized in the period in which such changes are made for the inception-to-date effect of the changes, with the exception of contracts acquired through a business combination, where the adjustment is made for the period commencing from the date of acquisition.
The impact on diluted earnings per share ("EPS") attributable to Leidos common stockholders is calculated using the Company's statutory tax rate.
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.
Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue.
Accumulated goodwill impairment losses were $369 million and $117 million included within the Health and Civil segments, respectively, at June 28, 2019, December 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017.
In addition, certain contracts were reassigned between Civil and Defense solutions reportable segments (see "Note 18–Business Segments").
There were no goodwill impairments during the six months ended June 28, 2019 and June 29, 2018.
On December 28, 2018, the Company closed the sale and leaseback agreement relating to two buildings and the adjacent land in San Diego, CA for consideration of $79 million, net of selling costs.
The carrying value of the land and buildings was $14 million.
The fair value of long-term debt is determined based on current interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s existing debt arrangements (Level 2 inputs).
For variable rate borrowings, the Company uses fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting a portion of the variable interest rate payments to fixed interest rate payments.


item2.txt
Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, we changed the composition of our Defense Solutions reportable segment to better align the operations within the reportable segment to the customers we serve.
This resulted in the identification of new operating segments within Defense Solutions.
U.S. Government Markets During the three and six months ended June 28, 2019, we generated approximately 87% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
All were funded at increased levels from the previous year.
In March 2019, the President submitted the GFY 2020 budget proposal to Congress.
The budget includes $750 billion for defense and $563 billion for non-defense spending.
The foreign currency impact was mainly attributable to adverse exchange rate movements in the British pound and Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.
Mine Safety Disclosures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.


