fls.txt



item1.txt
Financial Statements.
The Company has a controlling interest in Mission Support Alliance, LLC ("MSA"), a joint venture with Centerra Group, LLC.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments (see "Note 17–Business Segments").
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, which eliminates the requirement that a credit loss on a financial instrument be "probable" prior to recognition.
A prospective approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date and loans and debt securities acquired with deteriorated credit quality.
The Company has facilities and equipment lease arrangements.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset over the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at lease commencement date based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
The remaining lease cost is allocated over the remaining lease term on a straight-line basis unless another systematic or rational basis is more representative of the pattern in which the underlying asset is expected to be used.
The Company's leases may also include variable lease payments such as an escalation clause based on consumer price index rates, maintenance costs and utilities.
At March 29, 2019, the Company did not have any lease agreements with residual value guarantees.
As a result of the adoption of ASC 842, the Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and instead account for both components as a single lease, combining lease and non-lease components in revenue arrangements.
The Company's cash equivalents are primarily comprised of investments in several large institutional money market funds and bank deposits, with original maturity of three months or less.
At March 29, 2019, and December 28, 2018, the Company included $66 million and $56 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.


item2.txt
Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, we changed the composition of our Defense Solutions reportable segment to better align the operations within the reportable segment to the customers we serve.
While this activity did not have a material impact on the Company's reportable segments, prior year segments results have been recast to reflect this change.
U.S. Government Markets During the three months ended March 29, 2019, we generated approximately 87% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending, especially on national security, homeland security and intelligence, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. government.
In September 2018, Congress passed and the President signed a consolidated appropriations bill funding the Departments of Defense, Labor, and Health and Human Services for the full government fiscal year ("GFY") 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


