Item 1.
Financial Statements.</b>
a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire,
of NVE Corporation are prepared consistent with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission
rules and regulations.
In the opinion of management, these financial statements
reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal and recurring adjustments,
necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
Although we believe
that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading,
certain disclosures have been omitted as allowed, and it is suggested that these
unaudited financial statements be read in conjunction with the audited financial
statements and the notes included in our latest annual financial statements included
by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount
that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those
products or services.
Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract
research and development to depict the nature, amount, timing of revenue recognition
and economic characteristics of our business, and is represented within the financial
and distributors when we satisfy our performance obligation, at a point in time,
upon product shipment or delivery to our customer or distributor as determined
by agreed upon shipping terms.
Shipping charges billed to customers are included
in product sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales.
Under certain limited circumstances, our distributors may earn commissions for
activities unrelated to their purchases of our products, such as for facilitating
the sale of custom products or research and development contracts with third parties.
We recognize any such commissions as selling, general, and administrative expenses.
over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period
of time rather than a point in time.
Contracts have specifications unique to each
customer and do not create an asset with an alternate use, and we have an enforceable
right to payment for performance completed to date.
We recognize revenue over
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
a good or service to a customer and our right to receive consideration is unconditional
through the completion of our performance obligation.
A contract asset is recognized
when we have a right to consideration from the transfer of goods or services to
a customer but have not completed our performance obligation.
A contract liability
is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied
the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
We had no material
and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
Unsatisfied performance obligations represent contracts with an original expected
duration of one year or less.
As permitted under Accounting Standards Codification
are using the practical expedient not to disclose the value of these unsatisfied
performance obligations.
We also use the practical expedient in which we do not
assess whether a contract has a significant financing component if the expectation
at contract inception is such that the period between payment by the customer
and the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer will be one
Pursuant to SEC Final Rule Releases No.
33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification,
and Nos.
33-10231 and 33-10442, Investment Company Reporting Modernization, and
of the codification with the requirements of certain SEC final rules and is effective
immediately.
These rules include requiring filers to include in their interim
lease liabilities on the balance sheet of lessees.
In July 2018, the FASB issued
narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard.
and interim periods within those fiscal years, which is fiscal 2020 for us.
In
provisions of the new lease standard at its adoption date instead of at the earliest
comparative period presented in its financial statements, and we adopted the new
our only lease is the lease for our facility.
We recognized $298,983 of leased
liabilities a right-of-use asset of $261,644 as of April 1, 2019.
The leased liabilities
and right-of-use asset exclude non-lease components.
There was no effect on our
which clarifies codification and corrects unintended application of the guidance.
at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
The allowance for credit losses is a valuation account that is deducted from the
amortized cost basis of the financial asset(s) to present the net carrying value
fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2021 for us.
We do not expect adoption of the
the weighted-average number of common shares issued and outstanding during each
period.
Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value.
Unrealized
holding gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income
maturities less than one year are classified as short-term, and those with remaining
maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term.
We consider all
highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased,
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
Gains and losses on marketable
approximately 71% of our total assets.
Marketable
a framework for measuring fair value, provide a definition of fair value, and
prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements.
Generally accepted
accounting principles define fair value as the price that would be received to
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability.
Fair value is a market-based measurement
that should be determined using assumptions that market participants would use
in pricing an asset or liability.
Generally accepted accounting principles utilize
a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements.
The categorization
within the valuation hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant
to the fair value measurement.
The categories within the valuation hierarchy are
value measurements are determined using either prices for similar instruments
or inputs that are either directly or indirectly observable, such as interest
losses and fair value of our available-for-sale securities with unrealized holding
losses, aggregated by class of securities and length of time that individual securities
impaired at acquisition, and subsequent declines in fair value are not attributed
to declines in credit quality.
When evaluating for impairment we assess indicators
that include, but are not limited to, earnings performance, changes in underlying
credit ratings, market conditions, bona fide offers to purchase or sell, and ability
to hold until maturity.
Because we believe it is more likely than not we will
recover the cost basis of our investments, we did not consider any of our marketable
the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2020, and $93,360 for the second
quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019.
Stock-based compensation expenses
to the automatic issuance to our non-employee directors of options to purchase
1,000 shares of stock on their reelection to our Board.
We calculate the share-based
of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities
for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.
of the reporting date.
We recognize interest and penalties related to income tax
interest related to uncertain tax positions.
The tax years 2016 through 2018 remain
a non-cancellable lease through December 31, 2020.
Our lease does not provide
an implicit rate, so we used our incremental borrowing rate to determine the present
value of lease payments.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis
over the lease term.
Variable lease costs consist primarily of common area maintenance
of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2,500,000 of our Common Stock,
of additional repurchases.
We did not repurchase any of our Common Stock under
may contribute up to the Internal Revenue Code maximum.
We make matching contributions
had declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.00 per share of Common Stock to be
the documents incorporated by reference in this Report and in other materials
as well as information included in verbal or written statements made by us constitute
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions
of the reform act.
Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
the terminology such as may, will, expect, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate,
should, or continue, or the negatives of these terms or other variations on these
words or comparable terminology.
To the extent that this Report contains forward-looking
statements regarding the financial condition, operating results, business prospects
or any other aspect of NVE, you should be aware that our actual financial condition,
operating results and business performance may differ materially from that projected
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements.
We have attempted to identify,
in context, some of the factors that we currently believe may cause actual future
experience and results to differ from their current expectations.
These differences
may be caused by a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks related
to our reliance on several large customers for a significant percentage of revenue,
uncertainties related to the economic environments in the industries we serve,
uncertainties related to future sales and revenues, risks related to changes in
tariffs and other trade barriers, uncertainties related to future stock repurchases
and dividend payments, and other specific risks that may be alluded to in this
our, develops and sells devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies
on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store and transmit information.
We manufacture high-performance spintronic products including sensors and couplers
our critical accounting policies and estimates continued to include investment
2019 (the second quarter of fiscal 2020) decreased 13% compared to the quarter
was due to a 12% decrease in product sales and a 30% decrease in contract research
quarter was primarily due to decreased purchases by existing customers.
The decrease
in contract research and development revenue for the second quarter of fiscal
for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 82% for the second quarter of
of fiscal 2020 compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019 due to a 5% decrease
in research and development expense and a 2% decrease in selling, general, and
administrative expense.
The decrease in research and development expense was due
2020 increased 3% due to an increase in the average interest rates on our marketable
to tax benefits from the Federal Tax Reform Act enacted in 2017.
We currently
expect our tax rate for each of the remaining two quarters of fiscal 2020 to be
of fiscal 2020 compared to the prior-year quarter was primarily due to a decrease
compared to $4,333,847 for the prior-year quarter.
The decrease in comprehensive
income was due to a decrease in net income, partially offset by an increase in
unrealized gain from marketable securities of $178,716 compared to $51,237 in
the prior-year quarter.
The increased unrealized gain was due to strong bond market
period was due to decreased purchase volumes by existing customers.
The decrease
in contract research and development revenue was due to the completion of certain
of fiscal 2020 compared to the first six months of fiscal 2019 due to a 3%
decrease in research and development expense and a 1% decrease in selling,
general, and administrative expense.
The
decrease in research and development expense was due to the completion of certain
2020 increased 5% due to an increase in the average interest rates on our marketable
months of fiscal 2020 decreased 32% due to tax benefits from the Federal Tax Reform
Act enacted in 2017.
We currently expect our tax rate for the last six months
months of fiscal 2020 compared to the prior-year period was primarily due to a
fiscal 2020 increased slightly to $8,178,260 compared to $8,171,869 for the prior-year
period.
The increase was due to an unrealized gain from marketable securities
of $748,779 compared to an unrealized loss of $55,790 in the prior-year period,
partially offset by a decrease in net income.
The unrealized gain was due to strong
2019 was due to $7,420,636 in net cash provided by operating activities and $9,470,370
of cash provided by investing activities, partially offset by $9,692,020 of cash
used in financing activities.
We currently believe our working capital and cash
generated from operations will be adequate for our needs at least for the next
maturities, partially offset by $3,013,530 of marketable securities purchases
months of fiscal 2020 was due to $9,692,020 of cash dividends paid to shareholders.
2019 we announced that our Board had declared a cash quarterly dividend of $1.00
provided by operating activities and proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable
securities.
All future dividends will be subject to Board approval and subject
estimates of future cash requirements, and other factors the Board may deem relevant.
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has performed an evaluation of
the period covered by this Report.
This evaluation included consideration of the
controls, processes, and procedures that are designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.
Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
there was no change in our internal control over financial reporting that materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
partes</i> reexamination of our patent 6,538,921 titled &#147;Circuit Selection
2015 the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Patent Trial and Appeal Board affirmed
The reissued patent is for the unexpired part of the term of the original patent,
involved in litigation.
At this time we are not aware of any material pending
or threatened legal proceedings or other proceedings contemplated by governmental
authorities that we expect would have a material adverse impact on our future
factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
