fls.txt
The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs.


item1.txt
In management’s opinion, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of interim results.
Our revenues are generated principally from the sale of our products.
Revenue is recognized as performance obligations under the terms of a contract, such as a purchase order with a customer, are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control.
Since our performance obligations to deliver products are part of contracts that generally have original durations of one year or less, we have elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of transaction prices associated with unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations as of June 28, 2019.
We limit our warranty to the replacement or repair of defective parts, or a refund or credit of the price of the defective product.
We do not account for these warranties as separate performance obligations.
We estimate these amounts in the same period revenue is recognized based on the expected value to be provided to customers and reduce revenue accordingly.
This guidance, as subsequently amended, requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for most leases and is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We are currently in the process of updating policies, internal controls, financial statement disclosures, and systems to incorporate the impact of the new standard in our financial reporting processes.
We intend to adopt the standard using the optional transition method permitted by ASU No.
2017-12, an update to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging.
The update improves and simplifies hedge accounting and related disclosures.
2016-16, an update to ASC 740, Income Taxes.


item2.txt
Risk Factors.” Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in United States (“U.S.”) dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”).
TE Connectivity Ltd. (“TE Connectivity” or the “Company,” which may be referred to as “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a global technology and manufacturing leader creating a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future.
For more than 75 years, our connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, have enabled advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home.
In the industrial equipment end market, sales declines resulting from high inventory levels at distributors are expected to be partially offset by growth in medical applications.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.81 to $0.87 per share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019.
We expect global automotive production to decline approximately 7% in fiscal 2019.
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $400 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
Additionally, we are managing our capital resources and monitoring capital availability to ensure that we have sufficient resources to fund future capital needs.
Swiss Parliament approved the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (“Swiss Tax Reform”) in September 2018, and it was approved by public vote in May 2019.
Certain measures became effective in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and accordingly are reflected in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
We are currently assessing the impacts of the federal provisions and subsequent cantonal implementation.
The acquisitions were reported as part of our Transportation Solutions segment from the date of acquisition.
In June 2019, we announced our intent to acquire all outstanding shares of First Sensor AG through a voluntary public tender offer.
We expect to complete the transaction in fiscal 2020.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we sold our Subsea Communications (“SubCom”) business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre-tax loss on sale of $86 million.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to “Part I.


