item1.txt
In management’s opinion, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of interim results.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018.
We apply the practical expedient of ASC 606 with respect to financing components and do not evaluate contracts in which payment is due within one year of satisfaction of the related performance obligation.
Since our performance obligations to deliver products are part of contracts that generally have original durations of one year or less, we have elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of transaction prices associated with unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations as of March 29, 2019.
We limit our warranty to the replacement or repair of defective parts, or a refund or credit of the price of the defective product.
We do not account for these warranties as separate performance obligations.
This guidance, as subsequently amended, requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for most leases and is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We intend to adopt the standard using the optional transition method permitted by ASU No.
2017-12, an update to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging.
The update improves and simplifies hedge accounting and related disclosures.
This guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory in the period in which the transfer occurs.
This included a decrease in other assets of $798 million, an increase in deferred tax assets of $418 million, and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $63 million on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.


item2.txt
Risk Factors.” Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in United States (“U.S.”) dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”).
See “Non‑GAAP Financial Measure” for additional information regarding this measure.
TE Connectivity Ltd. (“TE Connectivity” or the “Company,” which may be referred to as “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a global technology and manufacturing leader creating a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future.
For more than 75 years, our connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, have enabled advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home.
·    Communications Solutions—Our net sales decreased 4.8% and 1.3% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the appliances end market.
We expect global automotive production to decline approximately 5% in fiscal 2019.
In the industrial equipment end market, we expect market weakness in factory automation and controls applications to be largely offset by growth in medical applications.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $4.88 to $4.98 per share in fiscal 2019.
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $400 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
Additionally, we are managing our capital resources and monitoring capital availability to ensure that we have sufficient resources to fund future capital needs.
See further discussion in “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” In September 2018, Swiss Parliament approved the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (“Swiss Tax Reform”), subject to a referendum and a public vote in May 2019.
During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we sold our Subsea Communications (“SubCom”) business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre‑tax loss on sale of $86 million.
Price erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $27 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
See further discussion of net sales below under “Segment Results.” Increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar, compared to other currencies, will directly affect our reported results as we translate those currencies into U.S. dollars at the end of each fiscal period.
(1)    Net sales to external customers are attributed to individual countries based on the legal entity that records the sale.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to “Part I.


