fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
Lease agreements are utilized worldwide, with the largest location concentration in the United States, Germany and India.
•The practical expedient related to land easements is not applicable as the Company currently does not utilize any easements.
•The Company declined the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term and ROU asset impairment for existing leases.
The decision to decline the hindsight practical expedient resulted in relying on assessments made under ASC 840 during transition and re-assessing under ASC 842 going forward.
•The Company declined the short-term lease exception, therefore recognizing all leases in the ROU asset and lease liability balances.
Consistent with ASC 842 requirements, leases that are one month or less are not included in the balance.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
The weighted-average discount rates used for operating and finance leases varies due to the jurisdictional composition, whereas the Company has an immaterial amount of finance leases that are primarily comprised of leases in Turkey which have higher interest rates.
For real estate leases, these payments are most often tied to non-committed maintenance or utilities charges, and for equipment leases, to actual output or hours in operation.
These amounts typically become known when the invoice is received, which is when expense is recognized.
The Company calculated basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share under both the treasury stock method and the two-class method.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no differences in the earnings (loss) per share amounts calculated under the two methods.
Accordingly, the treasury stock method is disclosed below.
Total share-based compensation expense was $9.3 and $13.7 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The change resulted in an immaterial increase in share-based compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Each performance share earned entitles the holder to one common share of the Company.


item2.txt
Banking operations are managed within two geographic regions.
The Eurasia region includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
The Americas region encompasses the United States (U.S.), Canada, Mexico and Latin America.
Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect Services was launched in 2018 to power the business operations of financial institutions of all sizes.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.
Our integrated business solutions include self-service fleet management, branch life-cycle management and ATM as-a-service capabilities.
From a product perspective, the banking portfolio consists of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation and kiosk technologies, as well as physical security solutions.
These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via ATMs, kiosks, and other self-service devices, as well as via online and mobile digital channels.
In addition, DN Vynamic suite's open application program interface (API) architecture is built to simplify operations by eliminating the traditional focus on internal silos and enabling tomorrow's inter-connected partnerships between financial institutions and payment providers.
In addition, with a shared analytic and transaction engine, the DN Vynamic platform can generate new insights to enhance operations across any channel - putting consumer preferences, not the technology, at the heart of the experience.


item3.txt



item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt
There has been no material change to this information since December 31, 2018.


