fls.txt



item1.txt
Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales.
For additional information on product warranty refer to note 9.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
The following is a description of principal solutions offered within the Company's two main industry segments that generate the Company's revenue.
For more detailed information about reportable operating segments, see note 20.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing.
The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others.
Software licenses and professional services may be sold separately or in bundled packages.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
Revenue from professional services are recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed or when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Generally revenue will be recognized using an input measure, typically costs incurred.
Products for banking customers consists of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation tools and kiosk technologies, as well as physical security solutions.
The retail product portfolio includes modular, integrated and mobile POS and self-checkout (SCO) terminals that meet evolving automation and omnichannel requirements of consumers.
Supplementing the POS system is a broad range of peripherals, including printers, scales and mobile scanners, as well as the cash management portfolio which offers a wide range of banknote and coin processing systems.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between separate services or distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
Product revenue is recognized at the point in time that the customer obtains control of the product, which could be upon delivery or upon completion of installation services, depending on contract terms.
Contract assets are minimal for the periods presented.
The amount of revenue recognized in 2018 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, mainly due to the changes in the estimate of variable consideration and contract modifications was de minimis.


item2.txt
•Continued to see positive Windows 10 ATM upgrade activity, including an order with a large U.S. regional bank.
•Partnered with Mastercard® on key technology and services agreements to strengthen the company's connected commerce offerings and further bridge physical and digital transactions.
•Secured a three-year frame agreement for branch automation services and systems with a major French bank.
The Company provides Connected Commerce solutions which enable millions of transactions each day.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers in these industries the flexibility to select the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes - tailored to help drive operational efficiencies, grow revenue and manage risk.
Eurasia includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
The Americas region encompasses the U.S., Canada, Mexico and Latin America.


item3.txt
The Argentina operations represent less than one percent of the Company's total assets and total net sales as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt



