Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales.
For additional information on product warranty refer to note 9.
For more detailed information about reportable operating segments, see note 20.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing.
The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between separate services in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
In some circumstances, when global service supply chain services are not included in a term contract and rather billed as they occur, revenue on these billed work services are recognized at a point in time as transfer of control occurs.
The Company applies the ‘as invoiced’ practical expedient related to performance obligations satisfied over time which permits the Company to recognize revenue in the amount to which it has a right to invoice the customer if that amount corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Company’s performance completed to date.
These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks and other self-service devices.
These offerings include highly configurable, application program interface (API) enabled software that automates legacy banking and retail transactions across channels.
Software licenses and professional services may be sold separately or in bundled packages.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
In the case of more significant professional services agreements, when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is also recognized over time.•Received strong banking activity in the U.S. for Windows 10 upgrades, with more than $50 million in orders •Partnered with U.S. Bank to showcase Essence, Diebold Nixdorf’s streamlined self-service touchpoint solution at ‘Super Bowl Live’ in Minneapolis The Company provides Connected Commerce solutions which enable millions of transactions each day.
To drive towards a singular Diebold Nixdorf culture, the Company will align around a few core characteristics, which reinforce the new priorities.
Collectively, these activities aim to create a more efficient organization with a leaner cost structure that will act quickly in the best interests of the Company's customers.
These offerings enable customers to meet the growing demand for transaction availability at ATMs, POS, self-checkout systems (SCO) and other distributed assets in a cost-effective manner.
The global service supply chain optimizes the process for obtaining replacement parts, making repairs, and implementing new features and functionalities.
It is a new breed of as-a-service offering, designed to power the business operations of financial institutions, credit unions and retailers.