fls.txt



item1.txt
As a result of applying the correction retrospectively, previously reported service cost of sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 increased by $1.0 and $3.0, respectively, and previously reported net income and basic and diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.6 and $0.01 and $1.9 and $0.02, respectively.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales.
For additional information on product warranty refer to note 9.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
The following is a description of principal solutions offered within the Company's two main industry segments that generate the Company's revenue.
For more detailed information about reportable operating segments, see note 20.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing.
The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others.
For its retail customers, the Company provides a comprehensive, modular solution capable of enabling the most advanced omnichannel retail use cases.
Software licenses and professional services may be sold separately or in bundled packages.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
Although the services are capable of being distinct, they are not distinct within the context of the contract.
Revenue from professional services are recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed or when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Generally revenue will be recognized using an input measure, typically costs incurred.
Products for banking customers consist of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation tools and kiosk technologies, as well as physical security solutions.
The retail product portfolio includes modular, integrated and mobile POS and self-checkout (SCO) terminals that meet evolving automation and omnichannel requirements of consumers.


item2.txt
•Transitioned to a new, streamlined and customer-centric operating model designed to drive global consistency across the organization while improving collaboration and enabling more agile decision-making.
•Initiated a services modernization program which includes updating customer touchpoints (ATM or POS), automating incident reporting and responses, and standardizing offerings and internal support processes.
This enhanced liquidity provides financial flexibility, facilitates acquiring the remaining shares of Diebold Nixdorf AG and supports DN Now initiatives.
Once completed, it will result in a further simplified and streamlined corporate structure.
•Won Windows 10 ATM product upgrade contracts with several North America financial institutions, including an agreement with a regional United States (U.S.) bank for more than 500 DN Vynamic software licenses and a new managed services agreement.
Diebold Nixdorf is now the sole ATM software provider for Westpac's 2,600 machines.
The Company provides Connected Commerce solutions which enable millions of transactions each day.
The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customers' integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and digital worlds of transactions.
Customers of the Company include nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers.
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments - Banking and Retail.


item3.txt
The Argentina operations represent less than one percent of the Company's total assets and total net sales as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.


item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt
Refer to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.


