fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company has reclassified the presentation of certain prior-year information to conform to the current presentation.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
Lease agreements are utilized worldwide, with the largest location concentration in the United States, Germany and India.
•The practical expedient related to land easements is not applicable as the Company currently does not utilize any easements.
•The Company declined the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term and ROU asset impairment for existing leases.
The decision to decline the hindsight practical expedient resulted in relying on assessments made under ASC 840 during transition and re-assessing under ASC 842 going forward.
•The Company declined the short-term lease exception, therefore recognizing all leases in the ROU asset and lease liability balances.
Consistent with ASC 842 requirements, leases that are one month or less are not included in the balance.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
The weighted-average discount rates used for operating and finance leases varies due to the jurisdictional composition.
For real estate leases, these payments are most often tied to non-committed maintenance or utilities charges, and for equipment leases, to actual output or hours in operation.
These amounts typically become known when the invoice is received, which is when expense is recognized.
As most leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The Company calculated basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share under both the treasury stock method and the two-class method.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no differences in the earnings (loss) per share amounts calculated under the two methods.
Accordingly, the treasury stock method is disclosed below.
Total share-based compensation expense was $5.3 and $6.9 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and was $19.4 and $27.2 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.


item2.txt
The gross annualized savings target for DN Now is approximately $400 through 2021, of which $175 is anticipated to be realized during 2019.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems and processes, transition workloads to lower cost locations and consolidate real estate holdings.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer intimacy and satisfaction, while providing career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhancing value for shareholders.
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments — Banking and Retail.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
Banking operations are managed within two geographic regions.
The Eurasia region includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect ServicesSM was launched in 2018 to power the business operations of financial institutions of all sizes.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.


item3.txt



item4.txt
This Item 4 includes information concerning the controls and control evaluations referred to in those certifications.


part2.txt



