Item 4.
Controls and Procedures 

Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of February 28, 2019.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Based on this evaluation, management concluded as of February 28, 2019, that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

No change in the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) occurred during the Company’s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings  

We are not a party to any legal proceedings and are not aware of any pending legal proceedings of any kind.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors  

Please carefully consider the information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the risk factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2018, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the trading price of shares of our Common Stock.
Additional risks not currently known or currently material to us may also harm our business.
Item 2.
Changes in Securities  

None.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities  

None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures  


  Item 5.
Other Information  







SIGNATURE 

In accordance with Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Lancaster, State of California, on April 9, 2019.
