In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology.Rent expense was $171 and $246, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
This facility support our administrative, marketing, customer support, and research and product development activities.
This facility support our sales, marketing, customer support, and research and development activities.
The facility supports our principal administrative, sales, marketing, customer support, and research and product development activities.
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
Net loss incurred on valuation of inventory at lower of cost or market value and write-off of obsolete inventory during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $185 and $255, respectively.Our revenue decreased to $6.3 million in 2019 compared to $7.3 million in 2018.
The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash outflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $1.2 million and an increase in net loss by $0.5 million, partially offset by increase in non-cash charges of $0.7 million.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 43% during the first quarter of 2019 from 56% for the first quarter of 2018.
ClearOne is a global Company that designs, develops and sells conferencing, collaboration, and AV networking solutions for voice and visual communications.
In addition, we expect to generate additional cash as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future.
It’s a suite that unifies messaging, calls and meetings and will energize workflows and increase productivity for everyone involved in the enterprise.
We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware-based video conferencing systems to software-based video conferencing applications.
We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development.
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.The material weakness will be fully remediated when, in the opinion of management, the control processes have been operating for a sufficient period of time to provide reasonable assurance as to their effectiveness.Item 1.