item1.txt
We adopted this new accounting standard codified as Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and the related amendments ("new revenue standard") during the first quarter of 2018 and have applied it to all contracts using the modified retrospective method, pursuant to which the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard is recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings and impacted balance sheet line items as of January 1, 2018, the date of adoption.
The effects of the changes in balance sheet accounts resulting from the adoption of the new revenue standard are primarily due to the beginning adjustments for adoption mentioned above, accompanied by incremental changes resulting from activity during the period ending June 30, 2018.
• Subscriptions to third party content revenue is recognized as a separate performance obligation ratably over the subscription term based on SSP, which is cost plus a reasonable margin.
Deferred revenue represents amounts invoiced to clients for which the services under contract have not been completed and revenue has not been recognized, including annual renewals of certain software subscriptions and customer deposits for implementations to be performed at a later date.
Disclosures regarding remaining performance obligations are not considered material as the overwhelming majority of the Company's remaining performance obligations either (a) are related to contracts with an expected duration of one year or less, or (b) exhibit revenue recognition in the amount to which the Company has the right to invoice.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company and the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares, including awards under stock-based compensation arrangements.
During 2018, performance share awards were granted to certain executive officers and key employees of the Company that will result in the issuance of time-vesting restricted stock if the predefined performance criteria are met.
The awards provide for an aggregate target of 184,776 shares, none of which have been included in the calculation of diluted EPS for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 because the related threshold award performance level has not been achieved as of June 30, 2018.
The six months ended June 30, 2018 also included a $0.4 million shortfall tax expense related to stock-based compensation that increased the effective rate by 6%.
During the six months ended June 30, 2017 we experienced a shortfall tax expense related to stock-based compensation of $0.9 million that increased the effective rate by 23%.
Stock-based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as an expense over the employee's or non-employee director's requisite service period.
The Company's stock-based compensation awards are in the form of restricted stock and performance share awards granted pursuant to the Company's 2012 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors and Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan (the "Plans").
As of June 30, 2018, there was $17.6 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the Plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years.
The Company grants restricted stock to executive officers, certain key employees and non-employee directors under the Plans with the fair value of the awards representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted stock is granted.
Shares of restricted stock may also be issued pursuant to the settlement of performance share awards, for which the Company records expenses in the manner described in the "Performance Share Awards" section below.
The Company grants performance share awards to executive officers and certain key employees under the Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan.
The number of shares of common stock earned and issuable under each award is determined at the end of each one-year or three-year performance period, based on the Company's achievement of performance goals predetermined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the time of grant.
The three-year performance share awards include a modifier to the total number of shares earned based on the Company's total shareholder return ("TSR") compared to an industry index.
One-year performance share awards are then subject to time-based vesting pursuant to which the shares of restricted stock vest in equal annual installments over the applicable vesting period, which is generally three years.
Three-year performance share awards result in the issuance of shares of common stock that are not subject to time-based vesting at the conclusion of the three-year performance period if earned.
In the event that the Company's financial performance meets the predetermined target for the performance objective of the one-year and three-year performance share awards, the Company will issue each award recipient the number of shares of restricted stock or common stock, as applicable, equal to the target award specified in the individual's underlying performance share award agreement.
The recipients of performance share awards do not receive dividends or possess voting rights during the performance period and, accordingly, the fair value of the one-year performance share awards is the quoted market value of CPSI's common stock on the grant date less the present value of the expected dividends not received during the relevant period.
The TSR modifier applicable to the three-year performance share awards is considered a market condition and therefore is reflected in the grant date fair value of the award.
Expense of one-year performance share awards is recognized using the accelerated attribution (graded vesting) method over the period beginning on the date the Company determines that it is probable that the performance criteria will be achieved and ending on the last day of the vesting period for the restricted stock issued in satisfaction of such awards.
Expense of three-year performance share awards is recognized using ratable straight-line amortization over the three-year performance period.
In the event the Company determines it is no longer probable that the minimum performance level will be achieved, all previously recognized compensation expense related to the applicable awards is reversed in the period such a determination is made.
Under long-term financing arrangements, the transaction price is adjusted by a discount rate that reflects market conditions that would be used for a separate financing transaction between the Company and licensee at contract conception, and takes into account the credit characteristics of the licensee and market interest rates as of the date of the agreement.
The Company evaluates the credit quality of its financing receivables based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, customer collection experience, economic conditions, the customer’s financial condition, and known risk characteristics impacting the respective customer base of community hospitals, the most notable of which relate to enacted and potential changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates as community hospitals typically generate a significant portion of their revenues and related cash flows from beneficiaries of these programs.
The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent, on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries.


item2.txt
Historically, we have primarily sought revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market, a strategy that has resulted in a ten-year compounded annual growth rate in legacy revenues (i.e., revenues related to our legacy Evident and TruBridge operations) of approximately 5.9% as of the end of our most recently completed fiscal year.
("HHI"), the parent company of Healthland, AHT and Rycan Technologies, Inc. We believe that as our combined customer base grows, the demand for additional products and services, including business management, consulting and managed IT services, will also continue to grow, supporting further increases in recurring revenues.
Although we are pursuing other strategic initiatives designed to result in system sales revenue growth in the future in the form of selective expansion into English-speaking international markets, selective expansion within the 100 to 200 bed hospital market, and continued development of new software applications such as our Business Intelligence solution which provides community hospital leaders valuable insight into financial, operational, and clinical data, there can be no guarantee that such initiatives will prove successful or will benefit the Company in a sufficiently timely fashion to offset the short-term effects of the aforementioned narrowing markets.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we generated revenues of $138.8 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $131.8 million during the six months ended June 30, 2017, an increase of 5% that is primarily attributed to TruBridge client growth.
Our net income for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $2.5 million to $4.3 million from the six months ended June 30, 2017 as a result of revenue growth accompanied with improved gross margins of 53%, a 1% increase from the first six months of 2017.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $8.1 million to $7.8 million provided from operations during the six months ended June 30, 2018, primarily due to a reduction of short-term liabilities and other changes in working capital.
Total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased slightly $0.2 million, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017.
Non-recurring system sales and support revenues decreased $2.6 million, or 21%, as volatility in the timing of new customer installations coupled with relative weakness in non-MU3 related add-on sales resulted in a decrease in Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenues of $2.5 million, or 22%.
We installed our Acute Care EHR solutions at three new hospital clients during the second quarter 2018 (one under a SaaS arrangement, resulting in revenue being recognized ratably over the contractual term) compared to ten new hospital clients during the second quarter 2017 (one under a SaaS arrangement).
Non-recurring Post-acute Care EHR revenues decreased by $0.1 million, or 9%, in the second quarter of 2018 as a result of slowing new installation bookings due to aggressive competition during our effort to make technological improvements to the AHT product line.
Sales and marketing expenses decreased 1%, or $0.1 million, compared to the second quarter 2017, primarily due to decreased payroll costs of 10%, or $0.3 million, partially offset by increased TruBridge-specific and MU3 commissions expense compared to the second quarter 2017.
Total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased 5%, or $7.0 million, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017.
Non-recurring system sales and support revenues increased $0.4 million, or 2%, primarily as year-to-date revenue contributions from MU3 implementations have outpaced the negative impact of new system implementation volatility and relative weakness in non-MU3 related add-on sales, resulting in an overall increase in Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenues of $0.9 million, or 5%.
These revenue contributions were partially offset by a $4.1 million, or 44%, decrease in new system implementation revenues, as we installed our Acute Care EHR solutions at nine new hospital clients during the six months ended June 30, 2018 (two under a SaaS arrangement), compared to thirteen new hospital clients during the six months ended June 30, 2017 (two under a SaaS arrangement).
Non-recurring Post-acute Care EHR revenues decreased by $0.6 million, or 26%, as a result of slowing new installation bookings due to aggressive competition during our effort to make technological improvements to the AHT product line.
Recurring system sales and support revenues decreased $0.8 million, or 1%, during the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Acute Care EHR recurring revenues decreased slightly by $0.1 million as a result of 2017 price freezes for the existing customer base to ease the impact of MU3 implementation, coupled with attrition primarily from the Healthland customer base, outweighing new customer growth.
TruBridge revenues increased 17%, or $7.4 million, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017.
Our hospital clients operate in an environment typified by rising costs and increased complexity and are increasingly seeking to alleviate themselves of the ever-increasing administrative burden of operating their own business office functions, most notably resulting in an expanded customer base for our accounts receivable management services, increasing $5.2 million, or 42%, and our medical coding services, increasing $2.6 million, or 120%, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017.
Total costs of sales increased by 3%, or $1.8 million, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017.
As a percentage of total revenues, costs of sales decreased to 47% in the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 48% in the six months ended June 30, 2017.
Our costs associated with TruBridge sales and support increased 14%, or $3.4 million, with the largest contributing factor being an increase in payroll and related costs of 29%, or $4.3 million, as a result of adding more employees during the trailing twelve months in order to support and develop our growing customer base.
Increased payroll was partially offset by an approximate $1.2 million decrease in cloud hosting costs as a result of moving to in-house resources during the fourth quarter of 2017 for cloud services provided to the HHI customer base.
The gross margin on these services increased to 46% in the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to 45% in the six months ended June 30, 2017, primarily attributed to the realization of 2017 bookings to revenue in which the aforementioned accompanying payroll costs constricted margins during 2017.
Product development costs increased 10%, or $1.6 million, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, as a result of increased headcount dedicated to functionality additions and enhancements across the product lines, as well as integration across product lines.
Sales and marketing expenses increased 3%, or $0.5 million, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, primarily due to increased TruBridge-specific and MU3 commissions expense.
General and administrative expenses increased 4%, or $1.0 million, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, primarily due to a $1.2 million increase in bad debt expense and a $1.3 million, or 20%, increase in employee health costs during the six months ended June 30, 2018.
These notable increases were partially offset by a $1.9 million decrease in voluntary severance program expense compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017.
Total other income (expense) decreased from expense of $3.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2017 to expense of $3.4 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018, as interest income has increased due to the expansion of long-term payment plans offered to our clients.
As a result of the foregoing factors, income before taxes increased by 59%, or $2.4 million, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017.
During the six months ended June 30, 2017 we experienced a shortfall tax expense related to stock-based compensation of $0.9 million that increased the effective rate by 23%.
The decrease in cash flows provided from operations is primarily due to a $6.3 million contraction in payables and other liabilities during the six months ended June 30, 2018 as a result of the timing of vendor and payroll payments compared to a $6.6 million expansion during the six months ended June 30, 2017.
The $2.5 million increase in net income was mostly offset by a combined accounts and financing receivables expansion of $6.1 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Acute Care EHR bookings in the second quarter 2018 decreased $7.8 million, or 33%, compared to the second quarter 2017, and in the six months ended June 30, 2018 decreased $5.3 million, or 14%, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, mostly due to the demand dynamics related to the Company's MU3 software applications.
Post-acute Care EHR bookings in the second quarter 2018 decreased $0.1 million, or 6%, compared to the second quarter 2017, and decreased $1.3 million, or 41%, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017.


item4.txt
31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


part2.txt
31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


