item1.txt
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company and the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares, including awards under stock-based compensation arrangements.
The Company's unvested restricted stock awards (see Note 9) are considered participating securities under FASB Codification topic, Earnings Per Share, because they entitle holders to non-forfeitable rights to dividends until the awards vest or are forfeited.
During 2018 and 2019, performance share awards were granted to certain executive officers and key employees of the Company that will result in the issuance of time-vesting restricted stock if the predefined performance criteria are met.
The awards provide for an aggregate target of 200,709 shares, none of which have been included in the calculation of diluted EPS for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 because the related threshold award performance levels have not been achieved as of September 30, 2019.
Stock-based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as an expense over the employee's or non-employee director's requisite service period.
The Company's stock-based compensation awards are in the form of restricted stock and performance share awards granted pursuant to the Company's 2012 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan and 2019 Incentive Plan (the "Plans").
As of September 30, 2019, there was $11.2 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the Plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years.
The Company grants restricted stock to executive officers, certain key employees and non-employee directors under the Plans with the fair value of the awards representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted stock is granted.
Shares of restricted stock may also be issued pursuant to the settlement of performance share awards, for which the Company records expenses in the manner described in the "Performance Share Awards" section below.
The Company granted performance share awards to executive officers and certain key employees under the Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan prior to 2019 and under the 2019 Incentive Plan beginning in 2019.
The number of shares of common stock earned and issuable under each award is determined at the end of a one-year or three-year performance period, as applicable, based on the Company's achievement of performance goals predetermined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the time of grant.
The three-year performance share awards include a modifier to the total number of shares earned based on the Company's total shareholder return ("TSR") compared to an industry index.
One-year performance share awards are then subject to time-based vesting pursuant to which the shares of restricted stock vest in equal annual installments over the applicable vesting period, which is generally three years.
Three-year performance share awards that result in the issuance of shares of common stock are not subject to time-based vesting at the conclusion of the three-year performance period.
In the event that the Company's financial performance meets the predetermined targets for the performance objectives of the one-year and three-year performance share awards, the Company will issue each award recipient the number of shares of restricted stock or common stock, as applicable, equal to the target award specified in the individual's underlying performance share award agreement.
The recipients of performance share awards do not receive dividends or possess voting rights during the performance period and, accordingly, the fair value of the one-year and three-year performance share awards is the quoted market value of CPSI's common stock on the grant date less the present value of the expected dividends not received during the relevant period.
The TSR modifier applicable to the three-year performance share awards is considered a market condition and therefore is reflected in the grant date fair value of the award.
Expense of one-year performance share awards is recognized using the accelerated attribution (graded vesting) method over the period beginning on the date the Company determines that it is probable that the performance criteria will be achieved and ending on the last day of the vesting period for the restricted stock issued in satisfaction of such awards.
Expense of three-year performance share awards is recognized using ratable straight-line amortization over the three-year performance period.
In the event the Company determines it is no longer probable that the minimum performance level will be achieved, all previously recognized compensation expense related to the applicable awards is reversed in the period such a determination is made.
Under long-term financing arrangements, the transaction price is adjusted by a discount rate that reflects market conditions that would be used for a separate financing transaction between the Company and licensee at contract inception, and takes into account the credit characteristics of the licensee and market interest rates as of the date of the agreement.
The Company evaluates the credit quality of its financing receivables based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, customer collection experience, economic conditions, the customer’s financial condition, and known risk characteristics impacting the respective customer base of community hospitals, the most notable of which relate to enacted and potential changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates as community hospitals typically generate a significant portion of their revenues and related cash flows from beneficiaries of these programs.
Principal payments with respect to the Amended Term Loan Facility are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning December 31, 2017, with quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.46 million through September 30, 2019, approximately $2.19 million through September 30, 2021 and approximately $2.93 million through September 30, 2022, with maturity on October 13, 2022 or such earlier date as the obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement become due and payable pursuant to the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Amended Maturity Date").
The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent, on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries.
The Amended Credit Agreement includes a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things and in each case subject to certain exceptions and baskets, impose operating and financial restrictions on the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, including the ability to incur additional debt; incur liens and encumbrances; make certain restricted payments, including paying dividends on the Company's equity securities or payments to redeem, repurchase or retire the Company's equity securities (which are subject to our compliance, on a pro forma basis to give effect to the restricted payment, with the fixed charge coverage ratio and consolidated leverage ratio 
The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement under the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.0 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter of 2019 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2018.


item2.txt
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we generated revenues of $204.0 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $208.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, a decrease of 2% that is primarily attributed to fewer MU3 installations as the October 1, 2019 MU3 compliance deadline passed partially offset by 
Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $10.7 million to $25.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to more advantageous changes in working capital, most notably as it relates to accounts receivable and financing receivables.
Total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $0.6 million, or 1%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Non-recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $2.8 million, or 23%, primarily due to a $2.5 million decrease in Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenues.
We installed our Acute Care EHR solutions at five new hospital clients during the third quarter of 2019 (one of which was under a SaaS arrangement, resulting in revenue being recognized ratably over the contract term) compared to six new hospital clients during the third quarter of 2018 (none under a SaaS arrangement).
This decrease in non-SaaS installation activity resulted in non-recurring EHR revenues from new system implementations decreasing by $1.4 million from the third quarter of 2018.
Additionally, the impending 2019 year-end deadline for compliance with the related Promoting Interoperability (“PI”, formerly “Meaningful Use”) program administered by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") resulted in a $1.9 million decrease in related MU3 installation revenues, which were partially offset by robust sales of other add-on applications, which increased $0.8 million compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Non-recurring Post-acute Care EHR revenues decreased by $0.3 million, or 29%, in the third quarter of 2019, despite increased bookings due to our ongoing product releases and aggressive efforts to make technological improvements to the AHT product line, as implementations from recent bookings have taken longer to complete due to multiple sites under contract.
TruBridge revenues increased 11%, or $2.8 million, compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Total costs of sales decreased by 1%, or $0.4 million, compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Our costs associated with TruBridge sales and support increased 3%, or $0.4 million compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Get Real Health contributed $0.4 million in TruBridge costs of sales during the third quarter of 2019.
Most notably, we saw a $0.7 million decrease in non-recurring severance as a result of the one-time voluntary retirement program offered during the third quarter of 2018, which was partially offset by an $0.4 million increase in non-recurring transaction-related costs resulting from recent acquisition activity and other strategic initiatives.
Bad debt expense decreased $0.7 million compared to the third quarter of 2018 but was offset by a $0.6 million increase in employee health costs.
Amortization expense associated with acquisition-related intangible assets increased $0.4 million compared to the third quarter of 2018 due to the addition of Get Real Health intangible assets acquired on May 3, 2019, and partially offset by the retirement of Rycan related trademarks during 2018.
Total other income (expense) increased from expense of $1.6 million during the third quarter of 2018 to expense of $1.7 million during the third quarter of 2019, primarily as our interest income resulting from long-term payment plans offered to our clients was mostly offset by expenses related to our corroborative agreement with Caravan Health related to our Rural ACO initiative.
Total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $4.1 million, or 2%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Non-recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $6.1 million, or 17%, primarily due to a $6.7 million decrease in Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenues.
A decrease in non-SaaS installation activity, along with a decrease in average contract value for the related installations, driven by smaller comparative facility sizes, resulted in non-recurring EHR revenues from new system implementations decreasing by $3.8 million from the first nine months of 2018.
Additionally, the impending 2019 year-end deadline for compliance with the related PI (formerly “Meaningful Use”) program administered by CMS resulted in a $6.6 million decrease in related MU3 installation revenues, which were partially offset by robust sales of other add-on applications that increased $3.7 million compared to the first nine months of 2018.
Non-recurring Post-acute Care EHR revenues increased by $0.6 million, or 22%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as a result of increased bookings due to our ongoing product releases and aggressive efforts to make technological improvements to the AHT product line.
Costs of Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support decreased by $0.7 million, or 16%, compared to the first nine months of 2018, primarily due to reduced software costs of $0.4 million, or 28%, and reduced payroll costs of $0.1 million, or 4%, as we have been able to operate more efficiently to meet current demand.
The gross margin on Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support increased to 76% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 72% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Our costs associated with TruBridge sales and support increased 3%, or $1.2 million, due to general increases resulting from a larger customer base.
Get Real Health contributed $0.5 million to TruBridge cost of sales during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Product development costs increased 1%, or $0.3 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Get Real Health contributed $0.7 million to product development costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, which were partially offset by a combined $0.4 million decrease in payroll, stock compensation, and other costs.
Sales and marketing expenses decreased 7%, or $1.6 million, compared to the first nine months of 2018, primarily due to decreased payroll costs of 11%, or $1.0 million, based on decreased headcount.
Get Real Health contributed $0.5 million to sales and marketing costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
General and administrative expenses decreased 5%, or $1.9 million, as the $3.9 million in cost savings achieved through recent changes in the health benefits offered to our employees through our self-insured health plans were partially offset by increases in other expense items.
Most notably, we saw a $1.8 million increase in non-recurring severance and transaction-related costs resulting from recent acquisition activity and other strategic initiatives.
Get Real Health contributed $0.4 million to general and administrative costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Amortization expense associated with acquisition-related intangible assets increased $0.2 million compared to the first nine months of 2018 due to the addition of Get Real Health intangible assets acquired on May 3, 2019, partially offset by the retirement of Rycan related trademarks during 2018.
Post-acute Care EHR bookings in the third quarter of 2019 increased by $0.2 million, or 26%, from the third quarter of 2018, and increased by $1.6 million, or 61%, year-to-date 2019 compared to year-to-date 2018, as beneficial regulatory factors have worked in tandem with our recent efforts to improve the related product functionality and usability to drive improved demand in both the net new and add-on sales environments.
TruBridge bookings in the third quarter of 2019 increased by $2.9 million, or 40%, over the third quarter of 2018, mostly due to our recently-introduced initiative to expand our TruBridge footprint outside of our traditional EHR customer base, resulting in significant client wins.


item4.txt
Item 6.Exhibits.


part2.txt
31.1  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
31.2  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


