item1.txt
We adopted this new accounting standard codified as Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and the related amendments ("new revenue standard") during the first quarter of 2018 and have applied it to all contracts using the modified retrospective method, pursuant to which the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard is recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings and impacted balance sheet line items as of January 1, 2018, the date of adoption.
Revenue for support and maintenance services is recognized based on SSP, which is the renewal price, ratably over the life of the contract, which is generally three to five years.
Deferred revenue represents amounts invoiced to clients for which the services under contract have not been completed and revenue has not been recognized, including annual renewals of certain software subscriptions and customer deposits for implementations to be performed at a later date.
Disclosures regarding remaining performance obligations are not considered material as the overwhelming majority of the Company's remaining performance obligations either (a) are related to contracts with an expected duration of one year or less, or (b) exhibit revenue recognition in the amount to which the Company has the right to invoice.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company and the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares, including awards under stock-based compensation arrangements.
The Company's unvested restricted stock awards (see Note 8) are considered participating securities under FASB Codification topic, Earnings Per Share, because they entitle holders to non-forfeitable rights to dividends until the awards vest or are forfeited.
During 2018, performance share awards were granted to certain executive officers and key employees of the Company that will result in the issuance of time-vesting restricted stock if the predefined performance criteria are met.
The awards provide for an aggregate target of 184,776 shares, none of which have been included in the calculation of diluted EPS for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 because the related threshold award performance level has not been achieved as of September 30, 2018.
Stock-based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as an expense over the employee's or non-employee director's requisite service period.
The Company's stock-based compensation awards are in the form of restricted stock and performance share awards granted pursuant to the Company's 2012 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors and Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan (the "Plans").
As of September 30, 2018, there was $15.6 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the Plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years.
The Company grants restricted stock to executive officers, certain key employees and non-employee directors under the Plans with the fair value of the awards representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted stock is granted.
Shares of restricted stock may also be issued pursuant to the settlement of performance share awards, for which the Company records expenses in the manner described in the "Performance Share Awards" section below.
The Company grants performance share awards to executive officers and certain key employees under the Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan.
The number of shares of common stock earned and issuable under each award is determined at the end of each one-year or three-year performance period, based on the Company's achievement of performance goals predetermined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the time of grant.
The three-year performance share awards include a modifier to the total number of shares earned based on the Company's total shareholder return ("TSR") compared to an industry index.
One-year performance share awards are then subject to time-based vesting pursuant to which the shares of restricted stock vest in equal annual installments over the applicable vesting period, which is generally three years.
Three-year performance share awards result in the issuance of shares of common stock that are not subject to time-based vesting at the conclusion of the three-year performance period if earned.
In the event that the Company's financial performance meets the predetermined targets for the performance objectives of the one-year and three-year performance share awards, the Company will issue each award recipient the number of shares of restricted stock or common stock, as applicable, equal to the target award specified in the individual's underlying performance share award agreement.
The recipients of performance share awards do not receive dividends or possess voting rights during the performance period and, accordingly, the fair value of the one-year performance share awards is the quoted market value of CPSI's common stock on the grant date less the present value of the expected dividends not received during the relevant period.
The TSR modifier applicable to the three-year performance share awards is considered a market condition and therefore is reflected in the grant date fair value of the award.
Expense of one-year performance share awards is recognized using the accelerated attribution (graded vesting) method over the period beginning on the date the Company determines that it is probable that the performance criteria will be achieved and ending on the last day of the vesting period for the restricted stock issued in satisfaction of such awards.
Expense of three-year performance share awards is recognized using ratable straight-line amortization over the three-year performance period.
In the event the Company determines it is no longer probable that the minimum performance level will be achieved, all previously recognized compensation expense related to the applicable awards is reversed in the period such a determination is made.
Under long-term financing arrangements, the transaction price is adjusted by a discount rate that reflects market conditions that would be used for a separate financing transaction between the Company and licensee at contract inception, and takes into account the credit characteristics of the licensee and market interest rates as of the date of the agreement.
The Company evaluates the credit quality of its financing receivables based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, customer collection experience, economic conditions, the customer’s financial condition, and known risk characteristics impacting the respective customer base of community hospitals, the most notable of which relate to enacted and potential changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates as community hospitals typically generate a significant portion of their revenues and related cash flows from beneficiaries of these programs.
The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent, on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries.
The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to mandatorily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities with (i) 75% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 and (ii) 50% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and thereafter.
The Company is permitted to voluntarily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities at any time without penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to prepayments of LIBOR rate loans made on a day other than the last day of any applicable interest period.
The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement under the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.3 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter of 2018 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2017.


item2.txt
Historically, we have primarily sought revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market, a strategy that has resulted in a ten-year compounded annual growth rate in legacy revenues (i.e., revenues related to our legacy Evident and TruBridge operations) of approximately 5.9% as of the end of our most recently completed fiscal year.
("HHI"), the parent company of Healthland, AHT and Rycan Technologies, Inc. We believe that as our combined customer base grows, the demand for additional products and services, including business management, consulting and managed IT services, will also continue to grow, supporting further increases in recurring revenues.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, financing receivables have increased by $4.3 million primarily for the aforementioned reasons, which have been partially offset by cash receipts related to MU3 installations completed during 2017.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we generated revenues of $208.1 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $198.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, an increase of 5% that is primarily attributed to TruBridge client growth.
Our net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $5.9 million to $10.0 million from the nine months ended September 30, 2017 as a result of revenue growth accompanied with improved gross margins of 53%, a 1% increase from the first nine months of 2017.
Total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased 3%, or $2.2 million, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Non-recurring system sales and support revenues increased $1.1 million, or 10%, as MU3 installations increased by $1.4 million from $1.7 million in the third quarter 2017 to $3.1 million in the third quarter 2018.
These increases were partially offset by relative weakness in non-MU3 related add-on sales and decreased new system implementation volumes, resulting in a net increase in Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenues of $0.6 million, or 6%.
We installed our Acute Care EHR solutions at six new hospital clients during the third quarter 2018 (none under a SaaS arrangement, resulting in revenue being recognized ratably over the contractual term) compared to nine new hospital clients during the third quarter 2017 (one under a SaaS arrangement) resulting in a $0.6 million decrease in new system implementation revenues.
Non-recurring Post-acute Care EHR revenues increased by $0.5 million, or 84%, in the third quarter 2018 as a result of increasing new installation bookings due to our aggressive efforts to make technological improvements to the AHT product line.
TruBridge revenues increased 9%, or $2.1 million, compared to the third quarter 2017.
Most notably, an expanded customer base for our accounts receivable management services resulted in an increase of $2.1 million, or 32%, and for our medical coding services resulted in an increase of $0.4 million, or 25%, compared to the third quarter 2017.
Total costs of sales increased by 1%, or $0.4 million, compared to the third quarter 2017.
Costs of Acute Care EHR system sales and support decreased slightly by $0.1 million compared to the third quarter 2017 primarily due to a $0.7 million, or 35%, decrease in travel costs due to improved implementation techniques.
The dual effect of increased revenues and the decreased costs noted above resulted in the gross margin on Acute Care EHR system sales and support increasing to 54% in the third quarter 2018, compared to 53% in the third quarter 2017.
Costs of Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support decreased by $0.3 million, or 15%, compared to the third quarter 2017, primarily due to reduced payroll costs of $0.2 million, or 20%, as the realization of HHI integration synergies over the trailing twelve months has resulted in reduced headcount.
The gross margin on Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support increased to 73% in the third quarter 2018, compared to 69% in the third quarter 2017.
Our costs associated with TruBridge sales and support increased 6%, or $0.8 million, with the largest contributing factor being an increase in payroll and related costs of 17%, or $1.4 million, as a result of adding more employees during the trailing twelve months in order to support and develop our growing customer base.
Increased payroll was partially offset by an approximate $0.6 million decrease in cloud hosting costs as a result of vendor consolidation during the fourth quarter 2017 for cloud services provided to the HHI customer base.
General and administrative expenses increased 20%, or $1.8 million, compared to the third quarter 2017, primarily due to an increase in severance costs of $0.7 million as a result of a voluntary early retirement program effective during the third quarter 2018 for select employees.
Total other income (expense) decreased from expense of $2.0 million during the third quarter 2017 to expense of $1.6 million during the third quarter 2018, as our improved leverage has resulted in more favorable interest rates on our long term debt, coupled with an increase in interest income due to the expansion of long-term payment plans offered to our clients.
Total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased 5%, or $9.2 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Non-recurring system sales and support revenues increased $1.7 million, or 5%, primarily as year-to-date revenue contributions from MU3 implementations have outpaced the negative impact of new system implementation volatility and relative weakness in non-MU3 related add-on sales, resulting in an overall increase in Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenues of $1.8 million, or 6%.
These revenue contributions were partially offset by a $4.8 million decrease in new system implementation revenues, as we installed our Acute Care EHR solutions at fifteen new hospital clients during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 (two under a SaaS arrangement), compared to twenty-two new hospital clients during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 (three under a SaaS arrangement).
TruBridge revenues increased 15%, or $9.6 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Most notably, an expanded customer base for our accounts receivable management services resulted in an increase of $7.3 million, or 39%, and for our medical coding services resulted in an increase of $3.0 million, or 78%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Total costs of sales increased by 2%, or $2.2 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
As a percentage of total revenues, costs of sales decreased to 47% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 48% in the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Our costs associated with TruBridge sales and support increased 11%, or $4.2 million, with the largest contributing factor being an increase in payroll and related costs of 25%, or $5.7 million, as a result of adding more employees during the trailing twelve months in order to support and develop our growing customer base.
Increased payroll was partially offset by an approximate $1.6 million decrease in cloud hosting costs primarily as a result of vendor consolidation during the fourth quarter of 2017 for cloud services provided to the HHI customer base.
Product development costs increased 11%, or $2.6 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017, as a result of increased headcount dedicated to functionality additions and enhancements across the product lines, as well as integration across product lines.
General and administrative expenses increased 8%, or $2.8 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017, primarily due to a $1.6 million increase in bad debt expense, a $1.1 million increase in stock compensation, and a $1.2 million increase in employee health costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
These notable increases were partially offset by a $1.1 million decrease in voluntary severance program expense compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Total other income (expense) decreased from expense of $5.6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to expense of $5.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, as our improved leverage ratio has resulted in more favorable interest rates on our long-term debt, coupled with an increase in interest income due to the expansion of long-term payment plans offered to our clients.
As a result of the foregoing factors, income before taxes increased by 32%, or $2.5 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Acute Care EHR bookings in the third quarter 2018 decreased $9.7 million, or 48%, compared to the third quarter 2017, and in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 decreased $15.1 million, or 25%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017, mostly due to the demand dynamics related to the Company's MU3 software applications.


item4.txt
31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


part2.txt
31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


