item1.txt
Deferred revenue represents amounts invoiced to clients for which the services under contract have not been completed and revenue has not been recognized, including annual renewals of certain software subscriptions and customer deposits for implementations to be performed at a later date.
Pro forma net income (loss) was calculated by adjusting the results for the applicable period to reflect (i) the additional amortization that would have been charged assuming the fair value adjustments to intangible assets had been applied on January 1, 2018 and (ii) adjustments to amortized revenue during fiscal 2019 and 2018 as a result of the acquisition date valuation of assumed deferred revenue.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company and the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares, including awards under stock-based compensation arrangements.
The Company's unvested restricted stock awards (see Note 9) are considered participating securities under FASB Codification topic, Earnings Per Share, because they entitle holders to non-forfeitable rights to dividends until the awards vest or are forfeited.
During 2018 and 2019, performance share awards were granted to certain executive officers and key employees of the Company that will result in the issuance of time-vesting restricted stock if the predefined performance criteria are met.
The awards provide for an aggregate target of 200,709 shares, none of which have been included in the calculation of diluted EPS for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 because the related threshold award performance level has not been achieved as of June 30, 2019.
Stock-based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as an expense over the employee's or non-employee director's requisite service period.
The Company's stock-based compensation awards are in the form of restricted stock and performance share awards granted pursuant to the Company's 2012 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan and 2019 Incentive Plan (the "Plans").
As of June 30, 2019, there was $14.9 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the Plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.9 years.
The Company grants restricted stock to executive officers, certain key employees and non-employee directors under the Plans with the fair value of the awards representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted stock is granted.
Shares of restricted stock may also be issued pursuant to the settlement of performance share awards, for which the Company records expenses in the manner described in the "Performance Share Awards" section below.
The Company grants performance share awards to executive officers and certain key employees under the Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan and the 2019 Incentive Plan.
The number of shares of common stock earned and issuable under each award is determined at the end of a one-year or three-year performance period, as applicable, based on the Company's achievement of performance goals predetermined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the time of grant.
The three-year performance share awards include a modifier to the total number of shares earned based on the Company's total shareholder return ("TSR") compared to an industry index.
One-year performance share awards are then subject to time-based vesting pursuant to which the shares of restricted stock vest in equal annual installments over the applicable vesting period, which is generally three years.
Three-year performance share awards that result in the issuance of shares of common stock are not subject to time-based vesting at the conclusion of the three-year performance period.
In the event that the Company's financial performance meets the predetermined targets for the performance objectives of the one-year and three-year performance share awards, the Company will issue each award recipient the number of shares of restricted stock or common stock, as applicable, equal to the target award specified in the individual's underlying performance share award agreement.
The recipients of performance share awards do not receive dividends or possess voting rights during the performance period and, accordingly, the fair value of the one-year performance share awards is the quoted market value of CPSI's common stock on the grant date less the present value of the expected dividends not received during the relevant period.
The TSR modifier applicable to the three-year performance share awards is considered a market condition and therefore is reflected in the grant date fair value of the award.
Expense of one-year performance share awards is recognized using the accelerated attribution (graded vesting) method over the period beginning on the date the Company determines that it is probable that the performance criteria will be achieved and ending on the last day of the vesting period for the restricted stock issued in satisfaction of such awards.
Expense of three-year performance share awards is recognized using ratable straight-line amortization over the three-year performance period.
In the event the Company determines it is no longer probable that the minimum performance level will be achieved, all previously recognized compensation expense related to the applicable awards is reversed in the period such a determination is made.
Under long-term financing arrangements, the transaction price is adjusted by a discount rate that reflects market conditions that would be used for a separate financing transaction between the Company and licensee at contract inception, and takes into account the credit characteristics of the licensee and market interest rates as of the date of the agreement.
The Company evaluates the credit quality of its financing receivables based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, customer collection experience, economic conditions, the customer’s financial condition, and known risk characteristics impacting the respective customer base of community hospitals, the most notable of which relate to enacted and potential changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates as community hospitals typically generate a significant portion of their revenues and related cash flows from beneficiaries of these programs.
Principal payments with respect to the Amended Term Loan Facility are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning December 31, 2017, with quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.46 million through September 30, 2019, approximately $2.19 million through September 30, 2021 and approximately $2.93 million through September 30, 2022, with maturity on October 13, 2022 or such earlier date as the obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement 
The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent, on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries.
The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to mandatorily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities with (i) 75% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 and (ii) 50% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and thereafter.
The Company is permitted to voluntarily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities at any time without penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to prepayments of LIBOR rate loans made on a day other than the last day of any applicable interest period.
The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement under the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.0 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter of 2019 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2018.


item2.txt
Prospectively, our ability to continue to realize long-term revenue growth is largely dependent on our ability to sell new and additional products and services to our existing customer base, including cross-selling opportunities presented between our operating segments, Acute Care EHR, Post-acute Care EHR, and TruBridge.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we generated revenues of $135.3 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $138.8 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018, a decrease of 3% that is primarily attributed to fewer MU3 installations as the MU3 deadline approaches partially offset by continued TruBridge client growth.
Our net income for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased by $0.8 million to $5.1 million from the six months ended June 30, 2018 as a result of a lower effective tax rate.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $9.6 million to $17.5 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to more advantageous changes in working capital, most notably as it relates to accounts receivable and financing receivables.
Total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $1.7 million, or 3%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
TruBridge revenues increased 5%, or $1.4 million, compared to the second quarter of 2018.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in our medical coding services of $0.1 million, or 4%, as operational decisions made by a few key customers have decreased their related patient volume and, consequently, had a negative impact on our service revenues.
Get Real Health contributed $0.2 million in TruBridge revenue during the second quarter of 2019.
Total costs of sales decreased by 4%, or $1.4 million, compared to the second quarter of 2018.
As a percentage of total revenues, costs of sales decreased to 48% in the second quarter of 2019, compared to 49% in the second quarter of 2018.
Costs of Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support decreased by $0.2 million, or 15%, compared to the second quarter of 2018, as we have been able to continue to operate more efficiently to meet current demand.
The gross margin on Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support increased to 76% in the second quarter of 2019, compared to 72% in the second quarter of 2018.
Our costs associated with TruBridge sales and support increased 3%, or $0.4 million, with the largest contributing factor being nonrecurring costs related to replacing office computers.
This increase was partially offset by a decrease in payroll and related costs of 2%, or $0.2 million, as a result of a 3% reduction in headcount compared to the second quarter of 2019.
Get Real Health contributed $0.1 million in TruBridge cost of sales during the second quarter of 2019.
Sales and marketing expenses decreased 7%, or $0.5 million, compared to the second quarter of 2018, primarily due to decreased payroll costs of 15%, or $0.4 million, based on decreased headcount.
Get Real Health contributed $0.2 million in sales and marketing costs during the second quarter of 2019.
Most notably, we saw a $1.1 million increase in non-recurring severance and transaction-related costs resulting from our recent acquisition of Get Real Health.
Amortization expense associated with acquisition-related intangible assets decreased $0.1 million compared to the second quarter of 2018 due to the retirement of Rycan related trademarks during 2018.
Total other income (expense) decreased from expense of $1.6 million during the second quarter of 2018 to expense of $1.5 million during the second quarter of 2019, as our interest rate on long term debt was reduced as we have reached our target consolidated leverage ratio, coupled with an increase in interest income due to the expansion of long-term payment plans offered to our clients.
As a result of the foregoing factors, income before taxes increased by $1.5 million, compared to the second quarter of 2018.
Total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $3.5 million, or 3%, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Non-recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $3.0 million, or 13%, primarily due to a $3.9 million decrease in Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenues.
Despite the similar experience in non-SaaS installation activity, a decrease in average contract value for the related installations resulted in non-recurring EHR revenues from new system implementations decreasing $2.5 million from the first six months of 2018.
Additionally, the impending 2019 year-end deadline for compliance with the related PI (formerly “Meaningful Use”) program from CMS resulted in a $4.7 million decrease in related MU3 installation revenues, which were partially offset by robust sales of other add-on applications.
Non-recurring Post-acute Care EHR revenues increased by $0.9 million, or 54%, in the six months ended June 30, 2019 as a result of increased bookings due to our ongoing product releases and aggressive efforts to make technological improvements to the AHT product line.
TruBridge revenues increased 4%, or $2.1 million, compared to the first six months of 2018.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in our medical coding services of $0.9 million, or 16%, as operational decisions made by a few key customers have decreased their related patient volume and, consequently, had a negative impact on our service revenues.
Get Real Health contributed $0.2 million in TruBridge revenue during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Our costs associated with TruBridge sales and support increased 3%, or $0.7 million, with general increases as a result of a larger customer base.
Get Real Health contributed $0.1 million in TruBridge cost of sales during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Total other income (expense) decreased from expense of $3.4 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 to expense of $3.0 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019, as our interest rate on long term debt was reduced as we have reached our target consolidated leverage ratio, coupled with an increase in interest income due to the expansion of long-term payment plans offered to our clients.
As a result of the foregoing factors, income before taxes increased by 2%, or $0.1 million, compared to the first six months of 2018.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $9.6 million, from $7.8 million provided by operations for the six months ended June 30, 2018 to $17.5 million provided by operations for the six months ended June 30, 2019.
During the first six months 2018, rapid revenue growth for TruBridge resulted in expansion of accounts receivable of approximately $4.5 million and financing receivables of approximately $1.7 million, as we were still in the early-stages of the MU3 opportunity (the sales of which have been nearly all under short-term payment plans).
Net cash used in investing activities increased $11.4 million, with $11.9 million used in the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to $0.4 million used during the six months ended June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2019, we had a twelve-month backlog of approximately $17 million in connection with non-recurring system purchases and approximately $227 million in connection with recurring payments under support and maintenance, Cloud EHR contracts, and TruBridge services.
Post-acute Care EHR bookings in the second quarter 2019 increased by $0.7 million, or 65%, from the second quarter 2018, and increased by $1.4 million, or 78%, year-to-date 2019 compared to year-to-date 2018, as beneficial regulatory factors have worked in tandem with our recent efforts to improve the related product functionality and usability to drive improved demand in both the net new and add-on sales environments.
TruBridge bookings in the second quarter 2019 decreased $3.3 million, or 51%, from the second quarter 2018, and decreased $2.9 million, or 28%, year-to-date 2019 compared to year-to-date 2018, as the aforementioned lack of urgency related to Acute Care EHR net new installation bookings is also having an adverse impact on the timing of customer decisions for purchasing TruBridge services.


item4.txt
Item 5.Other Information.


part2.txt
Item 5.Other Information.


