item1.txt
Deferred revenue represents amounts invoiced to clients for which the services under contract have not been completed and revenue has not been recognized, including annual renewals of certain software subscriptions and customer deposits for implementations to be performed at a later date.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company and the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares, including awards under stock-based compensation arrangements.
During 2018, performance share awards were granted to certain executive officers and key employees of the Company that will result in the issuance of time-vesting restricted stock if the predefined performance criteria are met.
The awards provide for an aggregate target of 92,386 shares, none of which have been included in the calculation of diluted EPS for the three months ended March 31, 2019 because the related threshold award performance level has not been achieved as of March 31, 2019.
The Company's stock-based compensation awards are in the form of restricted stock and performance share awards granted pursuant to the Company's 2012 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan and 2019 Incentive Plan (the "Plans").
As of March 31, 2019, there was $14.9 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the Plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years.
The Company grants restricted stock to executive officers, certain key employees and non-employee directors under the Plans with the fair value of the awards representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted stock is granted.
Shares of restricted stock may also be issued pursuant to the settlement of performance share awards, for which the Company records expenses in the manner described in the "Performance Share Awards" section below.
The Company grants performance share awards to executive officers and certain key employees under the Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan and the 2019 Incentive Plan.
The number of shares of common stock earned and issuable under each award is determined at the end of each one-year or three-year performance period, based on the Company's achievement of performance goals predetermined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the time of grant.
The three-year performance share awards include a modifier to the total number of shares earned based on the Company's total shareholder return ("TSR") compared to an industry index.
If certain levels of the performance objective are met, the award results in the issuance of shares of restricted stock or common stock corresponding to such level.
One-year performance share awards are then subject to time-based vesting pursuant to which the shares of restricted stock vest in equal annual installments over the applicable vesting period, which is generally three years.
Three-year performance share awards result in the issuance of shares of common stock that are not subject to time-based vesting at the conclusion of the three-year performance period if earned.
In the event that the Company's financial performance meets the predetermined targets for the performance objectives of the one-year and three-year performance share awards, the Company will issue each award recipient the number of shares of restricted stock or common stock, as applicable, equal to the target award specified in the individual's underlying performance share award agreement.
If the financial results of the Company fall below the threshold performance levels, no shares will be issued.
The total number of shares issued for the three-year performance share award may be increased, decreased, or unchanged based on the TSR modifier described above.
The recipients of performance share awards do not receive dividends or possess voting rights during the performance period and, accordingly, the fair value of the one-year performance share awards is the quoted market value of CPSI's common stock on the grant date less the present value of the expected dividends not received during the relevant period.
The TSR modifier applicable to the three-year performance share awards is considered a market condition and therefore is reflected in the grant date fair value of the award.
Expense of one-year performance share awards is recognized using the accelerated attribution (graded vesting) method over the period beginning on the date the Company determines that it is probable that the performance criteria will be achieved and ending on the last day of the vesting period for the restricted stock issued in satisfaction of such awards.
Expense of three-year performance share awards is recognized using ratable straight-line amortization over the three-year performance period.
In the event the Company determines it is no longer probable that the minimum performance level will be achieved, all previously recognized compensation expense related to the applicable awards is reversed in the period such a determination is made.
Additionally, the Company provides financing for purchases of its information and patient care systems to certain healthcare providers under long-term financing arrangements expiring in various years through 2025.
Under long-term financing arrangements, the transaction price is adjusted by a discount rate that reflects market conditions that would be used for a separate financing transaction between the Company and licensee at contract inception, and takes into account the credit characteristics of the licensee and market interest rates as of the date of the agreement.
The Company evaluates the credit quality of its financing receivables based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, customer collection experience, economic conditions, the customer’s financial condition, and known risk characteristics impacting the respective customer base of community hospitals, the most notable of which relate to enacted and potential changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates as community hospitals typically generate a significant portion of their revenues and related cash flows from beneficiaries of these programs.
Principal payments with respect to the Amended Term Loan Facility are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning December 31, 2017, with quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.46 million through September 30, 2019, approximately $2.19 million through September 30, 2021 and approximately $2.93 million through September 30, 2022, with maturity on October 13, 2022 or such earlier date as the obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement become due and payable pursuant to the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Amended Maturity Date").
The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent, on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries.
The Amended Credit Agreement includes a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things and in each case subject to certain exceptions and baskets, impose operating and financial restrictions on the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, including the ability to incur additional debt; incur liens and encumbrances; make certain restricted payments, including paying dividends on the Company's equity securities or payments to redeem, repurchase or retire the Company's equity securities (which are subject to our compliance, on a pro forma basis to give effect to the restricted payment, with the fixed charge coverage ratio and consolidated leverage ratio
The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to mandatorily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities with (i) 75% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 and (ii) 50% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and thereafter.
The Company is permitted to voluntarily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities at any time without penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to prepayments of LIBOR rate loans made on a day other than the last day of any applicable interest period.
The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement under the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.0 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter of 2019 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2018.
We estimated the fair value of the contingent consideration based on the amount of revenue we expected to be earned by Rycan through the year ending December 31, 2018 in accordance with the purchase agreement between the parties.


item2.txt
Through much of our history, we have been able to achieve meaningful long-term revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market.
Prospectively, our ability to continue to realize long-term revenue growth is largely dependent on our ability to sell new and additional products and services to our existing customer base, including cross-selling opportunities presented between our operating segments, Acute Care EHR, Post-acute Care EHR, and TruBridge.
As a result, retention of existing EHR customers is a key component of our long-term growth strategy by protecting this base of potential cross-sell customers, while at the same time serving as a leading indicator of our market position and stability of revenues and cash flows.
Additionally, as we consider the long-term growth prospects of our business, we are seeking to further stabilize our revenues and cash flows and leverage TruBridge services as a growth agent in light of a relatively mature EHR marketplace.
Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on a continuing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services, all of which contribute to recurring revenue growth.
The provision of these recurring revenue services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins and operating margins.
During 2018, total financing receivables increased by $7.8 million which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.
Second, competitor financing options, primarily through accounts receivables management collections and cloud EHR arrangements, have applied pressure to reduce initial customer capital investment requirements for new EHR installations, leading to the offering of long-term lease options.
Unlike our perpetual license arrangements under which the related revenue is recognized effectively upon installation, the SaaS arrangements result in revenue being recognized monthly as the services are provided over the term of the arrangement.
As a result, the effect of this trend on the Company's financial statements is reduced system sales revenues during the period of installation in exchange for increased recurring periodic revenues (reflected in system sales and support revenues) over the term of the SaaS arrangement.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we generated revenues of $69.1 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $70.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, a decrease of 2% that is primarily attributed to new EHR installations that were smaller in size compared to the first quarter of 2018 partially offset by continued TruBridge client growth.
Our net income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased by $0.5 million to $3.4 million from the three months ended March 31, 2018 as a result of lower Acute Care EHR system sales and support revenue leading to a gross margin of 54%, a 1% decrease from the first three months of 2018.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $4.8 million to $7.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to more advantageous changes in working capital, most notably as it relates to accounts receivable and financing receivables.
Total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased by $1.7 million, or 2%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Non-recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $1.4 million, or 11%, mostly due to a $2.0 million decrease in Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenues.
New implementations of our Acute Care EHR solutions decreased both in number and average contract size compared to the first quarter 2018, resulting in a $1.5 million decrease in related revenues.
Our Acute Care EHR solutions were installed in five new hospital clients during the first quarter 2019 compared to six during the first quarter 2018, with each period containing one installation under a SaaS arrangement, resulting in revenue being recognized ratably over the contractual term.
Add-on sales for our Acute Care EHR segment remained relatively flat, as the $2.0 million decrease in MU3-related revenues was offset by a $2.1 million increase in other add-on revenues.
Non-recurring Post-acute Care EHR revenues increased by $0.6 million, or 79%, in the first quarter 2019 as a result of increased bookings due to our ongoing product releases and aggressive efforts to make technological improvements to the AHT product line.
TruBridge revenues increased 3%, or $0.8 million, compared to the first quarter 2018.
Most notably, our insurance services line, which includes our TruBridge services, increased by $0.8 million, or 12%, due to new RCM customer growth.
We have also expanded our customer base for our accounts receivable management services resulting in an increase of $0.3 million, or 4%, and our information technology management services grew by 10%, or $0.3 million.
Total costs of sales increased by 1%, or $0.2 million, compared to the first quarter 2018.
As a percentage of total revenues, costs of sales increased to 46% in the first quarter 2019, compared to 45% in the first quarter 2018.
Costs of Acute Care EHR system sales and support increased by $0.3 million, or 2%, compared to the first quarter 2018 primarily due to a $1.0 million increase in hardware expense resulting from changes in the sales mix.
The dual effect of decreased revenues and the increased costs noted above resulted in the gross margin on Acute Care EHR system sales and support decreasing to 54% in the first quarter 2019, compared to 58% in the first quarter 2018.
The gross margin on Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support increased to 78% in the first quarter 2019, compared to 70% in the first quarter 2018.
Product development costs increased 5%, or $0.5 million, compared to the first quarter 2018, primarily as a result of an increase in headcount.
On February 8, 2018, the Company entered into the Third Amendment to increase the aggregate principal amount of the Amended Credit Facilities from $162 million to $167 million, which includes the $117 million Amended Term Loan Facility and a $50 million Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $4.8 million, from $3.1 million provided by operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $7.9 million provided by operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
During the first quarter 2018, rapid revenue growth for TruBridge resulted in expansion of accounts receivable of approximately $3.0 million and financing receivables of approximately $2.4 million, as we were still in the early-stages of the MU3 opportunity (the sales of which have been nearly all under short-term payment plans).
Net cash used in investing activities increased with $0.5 million used in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $0.1 million used during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
As of March 31, 2019, we had a twelve-month backlog of approximately $17 million in connection with non-recurring system purchases and approximately $227 million in connection with recurring payments under support and maintenance, Cloud EHR contracts, and TruBridge services.
Post-acute Care EHR bookings in the first quarter 2019 increased by $0.7 million, or 97%, from the first quarter 2018, as beneficial regulatory factors have worked in tandem with our recent efforts to improve the related product functionality and usability to drive improved demand in both the net new and add-on sales enviroments.
TruBridge bookings increased $0.4 million, or 11%, as demand for the remote hosting products offered by our IT Managed Services division and the revenue cycle optimization tools offered through the TruBridge RCM solution led to increased deal-flow.


item3.txt
We had $125.1 million of outstanding borrowings under our Amended Credit Facilities with Regions Bank at March 31, 2019.
Accordingly, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates on borrowings under the Amended Credit Facilities.
A one hundred basis point change in interest rate on our borrowings outstanding as of March 31, 2019 would result in a change in interest expense of approximately $1.3 million annually.


item4.txt
Item 5.Other Information.


part2.txt
Item 5.Other Information.


