item1.txt
Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and the related amendments ("new revenue standard") during the first quarter of 2018 and have applied it to all contracts using the modified retrospective method, pursuant to which the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard is recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings and impacted balance sheet line items as of January 1, 2018, the date of adoption.
The effect of the changes in balance sheet accounts resulting from the adoption of the new revenue standard are primarily due to the beginning adjustments for adoption mentioned above, accompanied by incremental changes resulting from activity during the period ending March 31, 2018.
Deferred revenue represents amounts invoiced to clients for which the services under contract have not been completed and revenue has not been recognized, including annual renewals of certain software subscriptions and customer deposits for implementations to be performed at a later date.
Disclosures regarding remaining performance obligations are not considered material as the overwhelming majority of the Company's remaining performance obligations either (a) are related to contracts with an expected duration of one year or less, or (b) exhibit revenue recognition in the amount to which the Company has the right to invoice.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company and the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares, including awards under stock-based compensation arrangements.
The Company's unvested restricted stock awards (see Note 8) are considered participating securities under FASB Codification topic, Earnings Per Share, because they entitle holders to non-forfeitable rights to dividends until the awards vest or are forfeited.
During 2018, performance share awards were granted to certain executive officers and key employees of the Company that will result in the issuance of time-vesting restricted stock if the predefined performance criteria are met.
The awards provide for an aggregate target of 184,776 shares, none of which have been included in the calculation of diluted EPS for the three months ended March 31, 2018 because the related threshold award performance level has not been achieved as of March 31, 2018.
Stock-based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as an expense over the employee's or non-employee director's requisite service period.
The Company's stock-based compensation awards are in the form of restricted stock and performance share awards granted pursuant to the Company's 2012 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors and Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan (the "Plans").
The Company grants restricted stock to executive officers, certain key employees and non-employee directors under the Plans with the fair value of the awards representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted stock is granted.
Shares of restricted stock may also be issued pursuant to the settlement of performance share awards, for which the Company records expenses in the manner described in the "Performance Share Awards" section below.
The Company grants performance share awards to executive officers and certain key employees under the Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan.
The number of shares of common stock earned and issuable under each award is determined at the end of each one-year or three-year performance period, based on the Company's achievement of performance goals predetermined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the time of grant.
The three-year performance share awards include a modifier to the total number of shares earned based on the Company's total shareholder return ("TSR") compared to an industry index.
One-year performance share awards are then subject to time-based vesting pursuant to which the shares of restricted stock vest in equal annual installments over the applicable vesting period, which is generally three years.
Three-year performance share awards result in the issuance of shares of common stock that are not subject to time-based vesting at the conclusion of the three-year performance period if earned.
In the event that the Company's financial performance meets the predetermined target for the performance objective of the one-year and three-year performance share awards, the Company will issue each award recipient the number of shares of restricted stock or common stock, as applicable, equal to the target award specified in the individual's underlying performance share award agreement.
If the financial results of the Company fall below the threshold performance level, no shares will be issued.
The total number of shares issued for the three-year performance share award may be increased, decreased, or unchanged based on the TSR modifier described above.
The recipients of performance share awards do not receive dividends or possess voting rights during the performance period and, accordingly, the fair value of the one-year performance share awards is the quoted market value of CPSI's common stock on the grant date less the present value of the expected dividends not received during the relevant period.
The TSR modifier applicable to the three-year performance share awards is considered a market condition and therefore is reflected in the grant date fair value of the award.
Expense of one-year performance share awards is recognized using the accelerated attribution (graded vesting) method over the period beginning on the date the Company determines that it is probable that the performance criteria will be achieved and ending on the last day of the vesting period for the restricted stock issued in satisfaction of such awards.
Expense of three-year performance share awards is recognized using ratable straight-line amortization over the three-year performance period.
In the event the Company determines it is no longer probable that the minimum performance level will be achieved, all previously recognized compensation expense related to the applicable awards is reversed in the period such a determination is made.
Under long-term financing arrangements, the transaction price is adjusted by a discount rate that reflects market conditions that would be used for a separate financing transaction between the Company and licensee at contract conception, and takes into account the credit characteristics of the licensee and market interest rates as of the date of the agreement.
The Company evaluates the credit quality of its financing receivables based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, customer collection experience, economic conditions, the customer’s financial condition, and known risk characteristics impacting the respective customer base of community hospitals, the most notable of which relate to enacted and potential changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates as community hospitals typically generate a significant portion of their revenues and related cash flows from beneficiaries of these programs.
The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent (the “Security Agreement”), on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries.
The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to mandatorily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities with (i) 75% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 and (ii) 50% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and thereafter.
The Company is permitted to voluntarily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities at any time without penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to prepayments of LIBOR rate loans made on a day other than the last day of any applicable interest period.
The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement of the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.3 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter of 2018 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2017.


item2.txt
Historically, we have primarily sought revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market, a strategy that has resulted in a ten-year compounded annual growth rate in legacy revenues (i.e., revenues related to our legacy Evident and TruBridge operations) of approximately 5.9% as of the end of our most recently completed fiscal year.
Important to our potential for continued long-term revenue growth is our ability to sell new and additional products and services to our existing customer base, including cross-selling opportunities presented with the acquisition of HHI.
We believe that as our combined customer base grows, the demand for additional products and services, including business management, consulting and managed IT services, will also continue to grow, supporting further increases in recurring revenues.
This acquisition expanded our footprint for servicing acute care facilities and introduced us to the post-acute care segment, adding significantly to our already substantial recurring revenue base and further expanding our ability to generate organic recurring revenue growth through additional cross-selling 
During the fourth quarter of 2017, TruBridge eliminated approximately $0.6 million per quarter of cloud hosting service costs for the HHI customer base by utilizing in-house resources.
During 2017, total financing receivables increased by $15.5 million, which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.
result, the effect of this trend on the Company's financial statements is reduced system sales revenues during the period of installation in exchange for increased recurring periodic revenues (reflected in system sales and support revenues) over the term of the SaaS arrangement.
Although we are pursuing other strategic initiatives designed to result in system sales revenue growth in the future in the form of selective expansion into English-speaking international markets, selective expansion within the 100 to 200 bed hospital market, and continued development of new software applications such as our Business Intelligence solution which provides community hospital leaders valuable insight into financial, operational, and clinical data, there can be no guarantee that such initiatives will prove successful or will benefit the Company in a sufficiently timely fashion to offset the short-term effects of the aforementioned narrowing markets.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we generated revenues of $70.9 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $64.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2017, an increase of 11% that is primarily attributed to TruBridge client growth and meaningful use stage three ("MU3") implementations.
Our net income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $3.7 million from the first three months of 2017 as a result of revenue growth accompanied with improved gross margins of 55%, a 4% increase from the first three months of 2017.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $6.6 million to $3.1 million provided from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to a reduction of short-term liabilities and other changes in working capital.
Total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased 10.6%, or $6.8 million, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Non-recurring system sales and support revenues increased $3.0 million, or 30%, primarily as Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenue increased $3.5 million, or 40%.
We installed acute care EHR solutions at six new hospital clients during the first quarter of 2018 (one under a SaaS arrangement, resulting in revenue being recognized ratably over the contractual term) compared to four new hospital clients during the first quarter of 2017 (one under a SaaS arrangement).
Non-recurring Post-acute Care EHR revenues decreased by $0.5 million, or 39%, as a result of slowing new installation bookings due to aggressive competition during our effort to make technological improvements to the AHT product line.
Total costs of sales increased by 1%, or $0.4 million, from the first quarter of 2017.
resulted in the gross margin on Acute Care EHR system sales and support increasing to 58% in the first quarter of 2018 from 53% in the first quarter of 2017.
Our costs associated with TruBridge increased 13%, or $1.5 million, with the largest contributing factor being an increase in payroll and related costs of 29%, or $2.1 million, as a result of adding more employees during the trailing twelve months in order to support and develop our growing customer base.
Increased payroll was partially offset by an approximate $0.6 million decrease in cloud hosting costs as a result of moving to in-house resources during the fourth quarter of 2017 for cloud services provided to the HHI customer base.
The gross margin on these services increased to 47% in the first quarter of 2018 from 43% in the first quarter of 2017, primarily attributed to the realization of 2017 bookings to revenue in which the aforementioned accompanying payroll costs constricted margins during 2017.
Product development costs increased 8%, or $0.7 million, from the first quarter of 2017, as a result of increased headcount dedicated to functionality additions and enhancements across the product lines, as well as integration across product lines.
General and administrative expenses increased 6%, or $0.7 million, from the first quarter of 2017, primarily due to a $0.5 million increase in bad debt expense and a $0.7 million, or 23%, increase in employee health costs during the first quarter of 2018.
Total other income (expense) increased from expense of $1.7 million during the first quarter of 2017 to expense of $1.8 million during the first quarter of 2018, as market conditions have resulted in increased interest rates paid on our variable-rate debt obligations.
As a result of the foregoing factors, income before taxes increased by 292%, or $4.4 million, from the first quarter of 2017.
On February 8, 2018, the Company entered into the Third Amendment to increase the aggregate principle amount of the Amended Credit Facilities from $162 million to $167 million, which includes the $117 million Amended Term Loan Facility and a $50 million Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
The decrease in cash flows provided from operations is primarily due to a combined $4.2 million decrease in payables and other liabilities as a result of the timing of vendor and payroll payments accompanied by a $1.2 million decrease in the cash impact of deferred revenues during the first quarter of 2018.
The $3.7 million increase in net income was mostly offset by a combined accounts and financing receivables expansion of $4.6 million more than during the first quarter of 2017.
The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement of the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.3 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter of 2018 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2017.
Acute Care EHR bookings increased $2.5 million, or 16%, from the first quarter of 2017 as new system implementations bookings strengthened from prior year levels, which we attribute mostly to timing as the pipeline for the EHR replacement market has not materially changed.
During the fourth quarter of 2017, the anticipated attrition of significant customer accounts and a product development acceleration investment plan in our Post-acute Care EHR software led management to record a goodwill impairment of $28.0 million against our Post-acute Care EHR reporting unit as of December 31, 2017.


item4.txt
Item 6.Exhibits.
31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


part2.txt
31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


