 Item 2.
This section should be read in conjunction with the AstroNova condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.
Product Identification (PI) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.
Three Months Ended May 4, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended April 28, 2018
Revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $36.2 million, representing a 14.9% increase compared to the previous year first quarter revenue of $31.5 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year first quarter was $22.0 million, an increase of 14.6% over the prior year’s first quarter.
International revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $14.2 million, a 15.8% increase over the previous year first quarter, and represents 39.2% of AstroNova’s first quarter’s revenue.
Current year first quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.6 million.
Current year first quarter gross profit was $14.2 million, a 17.6% increase compared to prior year first quarter gross profit of $12.1 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 39.4% reflects a 0.9 percentage point increase from prior year first quarter gross profit margin of 38.5%.
Other expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.4 million compared to $0.3 million in the prior year first quarter.
Current quarter other expense includes interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.2 million.
Other expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 consists primarily of interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million.
On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year first quarter was $0.8 million or $0.12 per diluted share, which included after-tax income of $0.8 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into as a part of the fiscal 2018 Honeywell licenses and product line acquisition.
Return on revenue was 4.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 2.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 18.2% in the first quarter of the current year, with revenue of $23.6 million compared to $20.0 million in the same period of the prior year.
The current quarter increase in revenue is primarily attributable to the increase in supplies revenue, specifically, labels and tag supplies revenue and inkjet supply revenue, both experiencing double digit growth as compared to the same period in the prior year.
Also contributing to the increase in revenue for the current quarter was the 6.1% increase in hardware revenue as a result of the Company’s new five-color digital label printer, as well as an increase in sales of monochromatic printers.
Hardware revenue increases were slightly tempered by lower sales of the Company’s other digital color printers within the product group.
The current quarter also experienced growth in parts revenue compared to the same period in the prior year.
Product Identification’s current quarter segment operating profit was $2.9 million, reflecting a profit margin of 12.2%.
This compares to prior year’s first quarter segment profit of $1.7 million and related profit margin of 8.3%.
Generally, our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated from operating activities and borrowings.
Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of the first quarter were $5.8 million and we had $8.5 million available under our revolving credit facility.
In fiscal 2018, the Company and the Company’s wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS, entered into a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A.
The Credit Agreement also provides for a $10.0 million revolving credit facility for the Company.
Both term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR rate plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
In connection with our entry into the Credit Agreement, ANI ApS entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect to the term loan.
Under this combined arrangement, payments of principal and interest with respect to approximately $8.9 million of the principal of the term loan will be made in Danish Krone, and interest on such principal amount will be payable at a fixed rate of 0.67% per annum for the entire term, subject only to potential changes based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
Additionally, the Company entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk associated with its payments with respect to the $15.0 million term loan.
Under this combined arrangement, interest will be payable at a fixed rate of 2.04% per annum for the entire term, plus an incremental margin of 1.0% to 1.5%, based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.
Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Krone.
Amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) the LIBOR rate (or, in the case of revolving credit loans denominated in a currency other than U.S.
Dollars, the applicable quoted rate), plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, or (b) a fluctuating reference rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds’ rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America’s publicly announced prime rate or (iii) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, plus a margin that varies within a range of 0.0% to 0.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly owned German subsidiary, AstroNova GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.
The Lender is entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans and to terminate its revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of various customary events of default.
The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.
As of May 4, 2019, the Company believes it is in compliance with all of the covenants in the Credit Agreement.
The Company’s statements of cash flows for the three months ended May 4, 2019 and April 28, 2018 are included on page 7 of this report.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.0 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to cash used by operating activities of $1.6 million for the same period of the previous year.
The increase in net cash provided by operations for the current quarter is primarily due to the increase in net income and the decrease in cash used for working capital.
The combination of changes in accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable and accrued expenses decreased cash by $3.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to a decrease of $4.5 million for the same period in fiscal 2019.
The accounts receivable balance decreased to $22.0 million at the end of the first quarter compared to $23.5 million at year end and the collection cycle increased to 53 days compared to 49 days at year end.
The inventory balance was $32.0 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to $30.2 million at year end and inventory days on hand increased to 131 days at the end of the current quarter from 120 days at the prior year end.
There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019, other than those which occur in the ordinary course of business.
We constantly re-evaluate these significant factors and make adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate.
Except for the changes resulting from the adoption of the new lease accounting standard during the period, there have been no material changes to the application of critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 Item 2.
Executives of the Company delivered 3,549 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $19.52 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
An employee of the Company delivered 573 shares of the Company’s common stock to satisfy the exercise price for 800 stock options.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $19.84 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.
