See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
Our products are employed around the world in a wide range of applications in the aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation industries.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
The accounting polices used in preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q are the same as those used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended January 31, 2019, except for the change resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standard Codification Topic 842 (“ASC 842”), Leases.
See Note 11 for further details related to the new lease accounting policy as a result of this adoption.
See Note 11 for further details related to this adoption, including policy and expanded disclosure requirements.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware, including digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of hardware and (iv) service agreements.
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time.
The Company recognized $279,000 of revenue during the nine month period ended November 2, 2019, related to the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2019.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which was estimated to be approximately 10 years.
The balance of these contract assets at January 31, 2019 was $903,000.
During the third quarter of the current year the Company recognized additional direct costs of $121,000.
The Company amortized $82,000 of direct costs for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 and the balance of deferred incremental direct costs net of accumulated amortization at November 2, 2019 was $942,000, of which $117,000 is reported in other current assets and $825,000 is reported in other assets in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet.
For the three and nine months ended November 2, 2019, the diluted per share amounts do not reflect common equivalent shares outstanding of 238,477 and 206,592, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended October 27, 2018, the diluted per share amounts do not reflect common equivalent shares outstanding of 228,600 and 333,175, respectively.
These outstanding common equivalent shares were not included due to their anti-dilutive effect.
There were no impairments to intangible assets during the periods ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018.
With respect to the acquired intangibles included in the table above, amortization expense of $1.1 million and $1.0 million has been included in the condensed consolidated statements of income for the three months ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018, respectively.
Amortization expense of $3.2 million and $3.1 million related to the above acquired intangibles has been included in the condensed consolidated statement of income for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018, respectively.
Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.
Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Kroner.
Amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) the LIBOR rate (or, in the case of revolving credit loans denominated in a currency other than U.S.
Dollars, the applicable quoted rate), plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, or (b) a fluctuating reference rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds’ rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America’s publicly announced prime rate or (iii) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, plus a margin that varies within a range of 0.0% to 0.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
At November 2, 2019, $6.5 million has been drawn on the revolving line of credit.
The outstanding balance bears interest at a weighted average annual rate of 5.26% and $93,000 and $39,000 of interest has been incurred on this obligation and included in other expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated income statement for the nine month periods ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018, respectively.
At November 2, 2019, there was $3.5 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility.
Following the completion of the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company entered into a Fourth Amendment to the Credit Agreement to, among other things, temporarily increase the revolving line of credit from $10.0 million to $17.5 million and modify certain of the financial covenants with which the Company must comply thereunder.
For additional information on the amendment and the resulting changes to the terms of the agreement, see Note 17 – Subsequent Events.
The Company is required to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility at the rate of 0.25% per annum.
Following the completion of the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company entered into a Fourth Amendment to its Credit Agreement with Bank of America governing the Company’s long-term debt.
Refer to Note 17 – Subsequent Events for additional information on the Fourth Amendment and the resulting changes to the terms of the Credit Agreement.
The Company has entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the floating-rate foreign currency-denominated term loan borrowing by our Danish Subsidiary and an interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk associated with the variable rate term loan borrowing by the Company.
Both swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges of floating-rate borrowings.
The cross-currency interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt denominated in U.S.
Dollars on our Danish subsidiary’s books to a fixed-rate debt denominated in Danish Kroner for the term of the loan, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate and foreign currency exchange rate changes on future interest expense and principal repayments.
At November 2, 2019, the Company expects to reclassify approximately $0.2 million of net gains on the swap contracts from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings during the next 12 months due to changes in foreign exchange rates and the payment of variable interest associated with the floating-rate debt.
The purchase price included a guaranteed minimum royalty payment of $15.0 million, to be paid over ten years.
Royalty payments are based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products.
The guaranteed minimum royalty payment obligation was recorded at the present value of the minimum annual royalty payments using a present value factor of 2.8%, which is based on the estimated after-tax cost of debt for similar companies.
As of November 2, 2019, the Company had paid an aggregate of $3.0 million of the guaranteed minimum royalty obligation.
At November 2, 2019, the current portion of the outstanding guaranteed minimum royalty obligation of $2.0 million is to be paid over the next twelve months and is reported as a current liability and the remainder of $8.5 million is reported as a long-term liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
In addition to the guaranteed minimum royalty payments, the Company also incurred excess royalty expense of $0.1 million and $0.8 million, respectively, for the three and nine month periods ended November 2, 2019 and $0.7 million and $2.0 million, respectively, for the three and nine month periods ended October 27, 2018 which is included in cost of revenue in the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of income.
A total of $0.4 million of excess royalty is payable and reported as a current liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet at November 2, 2019.
The lease liability is equal to the present value of the minimum lease payments for the term of the lease, including any optional renewal periods determined to be reasonably certain to be exercised, using a discount rate determined at lease commencement.
This discount rate is the rate implicit in the lease, if known; otherwise, the incremental borrowing rate for the expected lease term is used.
The Company’s incremental borrowing rate approximates the rate the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term at lease inception.
The value of the ROU asset is equal to the initial measurement of the lease liability plus any lease payments made to the lessor at or before the commencement date and any unamortized initial direct costs incurred by the lessee, less any unamortized lease incentives received.
There are two types of leases, operating leases and finance leases.
For operating leases, ROU assets are classified in other long-term assets, short-term lease liabilities are classified in other current liabilities, and long-term lease liabilities are classified in other long-term liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
On the cash flow statement, payments for operating leases are classified as operating activities.
The Company enters into lease contracts for certain of its facilities at various locations worldwide.
At inception of a contract, the Company determines whether the contract is or contains a lease.
Several of the Company’s lease contracts include options to extend the lease term and the Company includes the renewal options for these leases in the determination of the ROU asset and lease liability when the likelihood of renewal is determined to be reasonably certain.
In addition, several of our lease agreements include non-lease components for items such as common area maintenance and utilities which are accounted for separately from the lease component.
Comparative information has not been adjusted and continues to be reported under the previous accounting guidance.
The Company has elected the package of practical expedients, which allows entities to not reassess (1) whether contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification and (3) initial direct costs.
The Company has made an accounting policy election to apply the short-term exception, which does not require the capitalization of leases with terms of 12 months or less.
On February 1, 2019, the Company recognized $2.0 million of ROU assets and lease liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 to 12 years, some of which include options to extend the lease term for periods up to five years when it is reasonably certain the Company will exercise such options.
The company leases office space from an affiliate.
This lease is classified as an operating lease with annual rental payments of approximately $64,000 and $66,000 in fiscal 2020 and 2021, respectively.
As of November 2, 2019, the weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating leases are 5.7 years and 3.98%, respectively.
We calculated the weighted-average discount rate using incremental borrowing rates, which equal the rates of interest that we would pay to borrow funds on a fully collateralized basis over a similar term.
We have one equity incentive plan from which we are authorized to grant equity awards, the AstroNova, Inc. 2018 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2018 Plan”).
The 2018 Plan provides for, among other things, the issuance of awards, including incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, time or performance-based restricted stock units (PSUs), restricted stock units (RSUs) and restricted stock awards (RSAs).
Under the 2018 Plan, all awards to employees generally have a minimum vesting period of one year.
Options granted under the 2018 Plan must be issued at an exercise price of not less than the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant and expire after ten years.
In addition to the 2018 Plan, we previously granted equity awards under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 Plan”) and our 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”).
Both the 2007 Plan and the 2015 Plan have expired and no new awards may be issued under either, but outstanding awards will continue to be governed by those plans.
On January 31, 2019, the compensation committee of the Company’s board of directors adopted an Amended and Restated Non-Employee Director Annual Compensation Program (the “New Program”), which became effective as of February 1, 2019 and supersedes the prior program.
Pursuant to the New Program, beginning with fiscal 2020, each non-employee director will automatically receive a grant of restricted stock on the date of their re-election to the Company’s board of directors.
The number of whole shares to be granted will be equal to the number calculated by dividing the stock component of the director compensation amount determined by the compensation committee for that year by the fair market value of our stock on that day.
The value of the restricted stock award for fiscal 2020 is $60,000.
To account for the partial year beginning on February 1, 2019 and continuing through the 2019 annual meeting, and thereby provide for the alignment of the timing of annual grants of restricted stock under the New Program with the election of directors at the annual meeting, a total of 4,340 shares of restricted stock were granted to the non-employee directors on February 1, 2019.
A total of 11,560 shares were awarded to the non-employee directors as compensation under the New Program in the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
Other than the shares granted on February 1, 2019, which vested on June 1, 2019, shares of restricted stock granted under the New Program will become vested on the first anniversary of the date of grant, conditioned upon the recipient’s continued service on the Board through that date.
In March 2019, the Company granted 47,474 RSUs and 50,148 PSUs to certain key employees.
There were no stock options granted during the three month period ended October 27, 2018.
The weighted average fair value per share for stock options granted was $7.41 during the nine month period ended October 27, 2018.
As of November 2, 2019, there was approximately $0.9 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 1.7 years.
As of November 2, 2019, there was approximately $2.5 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to RSUs and RSAs which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 0.9 years.
AstroNova has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan allowing eligible employees to purchase shares of common stock at a 15% discount from fair value on the first or last day of an offering period, whichever is less.
A total of 247,500 shares were reserved for issuance under this plan.
During the nine months ended November 2, 2019 and October 27 2018, there were 5,441 and 3,912 shares, respectively, purchased under this plan.
The Company determines its estimated annual effective tax rate at the end of each interim period based on full-year forecasted pre-tax income and facts known at that time.
The tax effect of significant unusual items is reflected in the period in which they occur.
During the three months ended November 2, 2019, the Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $247,000.
During the three months ended October 27, 2018, the Company recognized an income tax expense of approximately $407,000.
During the nine months ended November 2, 2019, the Company recognized an income tax expense of approximately $182,000.
During the nine months ended October 27, 2018, the Company recognized an income tax expense of approximately $1,046,000.
As of November 2, 2019, the Company’s cumulative unrecognized tax benefits totaled $360,000 compared to $618,000 as of January 31, 2019.
We use the market approach to measure fair value of our derivative instruments.
Derivative instruments were measured at fair value using readily observable market inputs, such as quotations on interest rates and foreign exchange rates, and are classified as Level 2 because they are over-the-counter contracts with a bank counterparty that are not traded in an active market.
There was no change in the fair value of the earnout liability for the nine months ended November 2, 2019.
The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt, including the current portion, is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current interest rates at which similar loans with the same maturities would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and is classified as Level 3.
On December 9, 2019, the Company and its wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS (the “Parties”), entered into a Fourth Amendment (the “Fourth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement dated as of February 28, 2017 between the Parties and Bank of America, N.A.
The Fourth Amendment amends the Credit Agreement to, among other things, (i) increase the aggregate amount available for borrowings under the revolving line of credit prior to November 1, 2020 from $10.0 million to $17.5 million and (ii) modify the financial covenants with which the Company must comply thereunder by excluding certain capital expenditures from the calculation of the Company’s consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, providing that the minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio covenant will be suspended through the second quarter of fiscal 2021, and adding a minimum consolidated EBITDA covenant commencing with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 and continuing through the second quarter of fiscal 2021.
 Item 1A.
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.
The Company is providing the following information in this Item 5 in lieu of disclosing the information under Items 1.01 and 2.03 of a Current Report on Form 8-K with a due date on or after the date hereof.
On December 9, 2019, the Company, ANI ApS, TrojanLabel ApS and the Lender entered into the Fourth Amendment to the Credit Agreement.
The Fourth Amendment amends the Credit Agreement to, among other things, (i) increase the aggregate amount available for borrowings under the revolving line of credit prior to November 1, 2020 from $10.0 million to $17.5 million and (ii) modify the financial covenants with which the Company must comply thereunder by excluding certain capital expenditures from the calculation of the Company’s consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, providing that the minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio covenant will be suspended through the second quarter of fiscal 2021, and adding a minimum consolidated EBITDA covenant commencing with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 and continuing through the second quarter of fiscal 2021.
The description of the Fourth Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Fourth Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 3A   Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company and all amendments thereto, filed as Exhibit 3A to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2016 and incorporated by reference herein.
 10.1   Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of December 9, 2019, by and among AstroNova, Inc. ANI ApS, Trojan Label ApS and Bank of America, N.A.
 32.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
