 Item 2.
   •   Product Identification—offers product identification and digital label printer hardware, software, servicing contracts, parts and supplies.
Supplies includes the media (substrate) and ink, toner, and thermal transfer ribbon used with the Company’s printers and the various parts used to maintain the printers.
Three Months Ended April 28, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended April 29, 2017
Revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $31.5 million, representing a 28.7% increase compared to the previous year first quarter revenue of $24.5 million.
International revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $12.3 million, a 39.7% increase over the previous year first quarter and represents 39% of AstroNova’s first quarter’s revenue.
Current year first quarter international revenue includes a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.8 million.
Current year first quarter gross profit was $12.1 million, a 30.1% increase compared to prior year first quarter gross profit of $9.3 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 38.5% reflects a 0.5 percentage point increase from the prior year first quarter gross profit margin of 38.0%.
Other expense in the first quarter of the fiscal 2019 was $0.3 million compared to $48 thousand in the prior year first quarter.
Current quarter other expense includes interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million.
The Company reported net income of $0.8 million or $0.12 per diluted share for the first quarter of the current year, which included after-tax income of $0.8 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement.
In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year first quarter was $0.5 million or $0.07 per diluted share.
Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 7.0% in the first quarter of the current year, with revenue of $20.0 million compared to $18.6 million in the same period of the prior year.
Hardware revenue increased 6.3% compared to prior year primarily due to the increase in demand for Kiaro!
The current year first quarter also received a strong contribution from the supplies product line revenue which increased 7.2% from the same period in the prior year.
The current quarter increase in supplies revenue is due to the continued increase in demand for digital color printer supplies, which has experienced double-digit growth in the current year first quarter compared to the same period in the prior year.
The increase in sales of label and tag products for the current quarter also contributed to the increase in supplies revenue.
The Product Identification segment current quarter segment operating profit was $1.7 million, reflecting a profit margin of 8.3%.
Our primary source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities.
Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of the first quarter were $6.8 million and we had $10.0 million available under our revolving credit facility.
On February 28, 2017, the Company and its wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS (together, the “Parties”), entered into a Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A.
The Credit Agreement also provided for a $10.0 million revolving credit facility available to the Company for general corporate purposes.
In connection with the Honeywell Purchase and License Agreement, on September 28, 2017, the Parties entered into a First Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
The First Amendment amended the existing Credit Agreement to permit the Honeywell Agreement and temporarily increased the amount available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility from $10.0 million to $15.0 million.
On November 30, 2017, the Parties entered into a Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
The Second Amendment provided for a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million, in addition to the revolving credit facility for the Company and the term loan previously borrowed by ANI ApS at the original closing under the Credit Agreement.
The principal amount of the revolving credit facility which had been temporarily increased to $15.0 million was reduced to $10.0 million effective upon closing of the Second Amendment and the maturity date was extended to November 30, 2022.
On April 17, 2018, the Parties entered into a Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
The Third Amendment provides that no “Immaterial Subsidiary” will be required to become a guarantor or securing party under (unless requested by the Lender during default) or have its equity pledged pursuant to the Credit Agreement.
The Third Amendment defines “Immaterial Subsidiary” as any subsidiary of the Company with (a) consolidated total assets that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and (b) revenues that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries, as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter; provided that Immaterial Subsidiaries shall not account for, in the aggregate, more than 10% the of consolidated total assets or consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the Credit Agreement, AstroNova and ANI ApS entered into certain hedging arrangements with the Lender to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect of the term loans.
Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.
Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Krone.
Amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) the LIBOR rate (or in the case of revolving credit loans denominated in a currency other than U.S.
Dollars, the applicable quoted rate), plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, or (b) a fluctuating reference rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds’ rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America’s publicly announced prime rate or (iii) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, plus a margin that varies within a range of 0.0% to 0.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
The obligations of ANI ApS in respect of the $9.2 million term loan are guaranteed by the Company and TrojanLabel.
The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly-owned German subsidiary Astro-Med GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.
The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.
The Lender is entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans and to terminate its revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of various customary events of default.
As of April 28, 2018, there were no borrowings against the revolving credit facility and we believe the Company is in compliance with all of the covenants in the Credit Agreement.
Net cash used by operating activities was $2.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to $0.8 million for the same period of the previous year.
The increase in net cash used by operations for the current quarter is primarily due to increased cash used for working capital and increase in non-cash amortization related to the Honeywell acquisition.
The combination of changes in accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable and accrued expenses decreased cash by $5.0 million in for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to a decrease of $2.1 million for the same period in fiscal 2018.
The accounts receivable balance increased to $25.3 million at the end of the first quarter compared to $22.4 at year end and the collection cycle increased to 63 days compared to 55 days at year end.
The inventory balance was $27.7 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $27.6 million at year end and inventory days on hand increased to 129 days at the end of the current quarter from 124 days at the prior year end.
There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, other than those which occur in the ordinary course of business.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 Item 2.
 (a) Employees of the Company delivered 2,383 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $14.26 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
 (b) The Company’s Chief Executive Officer delivered 456 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $14.47 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
 (c) Employees of the Company delivered 630 shares of the Company’s common stock to satisfy the exercise price for 1,000 stock options exercised.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $14.23 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
 (d) An employee of the Company delivered 4,925 shares of the Company’s common stock to satisfy the exercise price for 9,975 stock options exercised.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $15.95 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
