 Item 2.  
Product Identification (“PI”) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.  
Three Months Ended November 2, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended October 27, 2018  
Other expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.2 million compared to $0.5 million in the third quarter of the prior year. Current quarter other expense primarily includes interest expense on the Company’s debt and revolving line of credit of $0.2 million. Other expense for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and net foreign exchange loss of $0.3 million.  
The Company reported net income of $0.5 million or $0.06 per diluted share for the third quarter of the current year. On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year’s third quarter was $1.4 million or $0.20 per diluted share. Return on revenue was 1.4% for the third quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 4.1% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019.  
Revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $103.0 million, representing a 3.5% increase compared to the previous year’s first nine months of revenue of $99.5 million. Revenue through domestic channels for the first nine months of the current year was $64.5 million, an increase of 6.1% from prior year domestic revenue of $60.8 million. International revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $38.5 million, a slight decrease from the previous year international revenue of $38.7 million. The current year’s first nine months of international revenue reflected an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $1.2 million.  
Supplies revenue in the first nine months of the current year was $55.5 million, representing a 5.3% increase over the prior year’s first nine months revenue of $52.7 million. The current year increase in supplies revenue is due primarily to the increase in inkjet printer supplies and label sales, tempered by lower thermal film and electrophotographic supplies revenue in the Product Identification segment.  
Service and other revenues were $10.0 million in the first nine months of the current year, a 13.4% increase compared to the prior year’s first nine months service and other revenues of $8.8 million. The current year increase is primarily due to an increase in repairs and parts revenues in the AstroNova aerospace product line and an increase in customer demand for parts in the data recorder product line. Also contributing to the current year increase were sales of parts in the Product Identification segment as a result of the increase in the installed base of printers currently in the field. Current year first nine months gross profit was $38.5 million, a 2.3% decrease from prior year’s first nine months gross profit of $39.4 million. The Company’s gross profit margin of 37.4% in the current year reflects a decrease from the prior year’s first nine months gross profit margin of 39.6%. The lower gross profit margin for the current year compared to the prior year is primarily due to higher period costs and adverse product mix.  
Other expense during the first nine months of the current year was $0.8 million compared to $1.3 million in the first nine months of the previous year. Current year other expense includes interest expense of $0.6 million on the Company’s debt and revolving credit line and $0.3 million of net foreign exchange loss which was partially offset by investment and other income of $0.1 million. Other expense during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 includes interest expense on debt of $0.6 million and net foreign exchange loss of $0.8 million which was partially offset by investment and other income of $0.1 million  
The Company reported net income of $3.1 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, for the first nine months of the current year. On a comparable basis, net income for the first nine months of the prior year was $3.4 million, or $0.49 per diluted share, which included $0.8 million of after-tax income, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates in the prior year’s first quarter for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement. In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share. Return on revenue was 3.0% for the first nine months of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.4% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019.  
Total current quarter revenue from the Product Identification segment of $21.7 million was comparable to revenue for the same period of the prior year. Current quarter revenue includes increases in hardware and supplies revenue within the TrojanLabel product group, as well as a significant contribution from the introduction of the new QL -300 printer in the QuickLabel product group, slightly offset by declines in some of the Company’s inkjet printer product lines. Product Identification’s current quarter segment operating profit was $1.9 million, reflecting a profit margin of 8.6%. This compares to the prior year’s third quarter segment profit of $2.0 million and related profit margin of 9.3%. The slight decrease in Product Identification current year third quarter operating segment operating margin is primarily due to higher operating expenses and adverse product mix.  
Revenues from the Product Identification segment increased 6.4% to $67.5 million in the first nine months of the current year from $63.4 million in the same period of the prior year. The current year increase is primarily attributable to strong demand for ink jet supplies in the first quarter from Asian customers, which subsequently declined. Also contributing to the increase in revenue for the current year was an increase in service and other revenue. Hardware revenue in the PI segment remained fairly constant compared to the prior year; however the segment did experience a significant revenue contribution from the introduction of QuickLabel’s new QL -300 printer, as well as double-digit growth in revenue from sales of both QuickLabel’s monochromatic printers and TrojanLabel’s T2-C printers. This growth was tempered by lower sales of other inkjet color printers within the QuickLabel product group. Product Identification current year segment operating profit was $7.0 million with a profit margin of 10.4%, compared to the prior year segment operating profit of $5.8 million and related profit margin of 9.2 %. The increase in current year segment operating profit and margin is primarily due to higher sales and product mix early in the year.  
Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of the third quarter were $4.5 million. During the third quarter of the current year, the Company borrowed an additional $3.0 million on its revolving credit facility. At November 2, 2019, under its existing revolving credit facility, the Company had an outstanding balance of $6.5 million and $3.5 million remaining available for borrowing.  
The Company’s backlog decreased 18.8% from year-end to $20.8 million at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2020.  
Both term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR rate plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.  
In connection with our entry into the Credit Agreement, ANI ApS entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect to the term loan. Under this combined arrangement, payments of principal and interest with respect to approximately $8.9 million of the principal of the term loan will be made in Danish Kroner, and interest on such principal amount will be payable at a fixed rate of 0.67% per annum for the entire term, subject only to potential changes based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio. Additionally, the Company entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk associated with its payments with respect to the $15.0 million term loan. Under this combined arrangement, interest will be payable at a fixed rate of 2.04% per annum for the entire term, plus an incremental margin of 1.0% to 1.5%, based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.  
The obligations of ANI ApS in respect of the $9.2 million term loan are guaranteed by the Company and TrojanLabel ApS. The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly owned German subsidiary, AstroNova GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.  
The Lender is entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans and to terminate its revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of various customary events of default.  
The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.  
On December 9, 2019, the Company, ANI ApS, TrojanLabel ApS and the Lender, entered into a Fourth Amendment (the “Fourth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. Refer to Part II, Item 5 Other Information for further details on the Fourth Amendment and resulting changes to the terms of the Credit Agreement.  
The Company’s statements of cash flows for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018 are included on page 8 of this report. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.0 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2020 compared to $2.5 million for the same period of the previous year. The decrease in net cash provided by operations for the first nine months of the current year is primarily due to the decrease in net income, and an increase in cash used for working capital. The combination of changes in accounts receivable, inventory, income taxes, accounts payable and accrued expenses negatively impacted cash by $8.4 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2020, compared to $6.8 million for the same period in fiscal 2019.  
The accounts receivable balance decreased to $22.1 million at the end of the third quarter compared to $23.5 million at year end. The $1.4 million decrease in the accounts receivable balance from year end is directly related to the decrease in sales for the third quarter of the current year as compared to third quarter sales in fiscal 2019.  
The net decreased cash position at November 2, 2019 primarily resulted from principal payments of long-term debt and the guaranteed royalty obligation of $4.0 million and $1.4 million, respectively; cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $2.4 million and dividends paid of $1.5 million, offset by increased cash provided by current period borrowing on the Company’s existing revolving credit facility of $5.0 million.  
There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019, other than those which occur in the ordinary course of business.  
