fls.txt



item1.txt
Continues on following page.
The difference between the initial right of use asset and lease liability balances recognized upon adoption of ASC Topic 842 is primarily due to accrued lease incentive balances at December 31, 2018.
The transactions did not qualify as a completed sale and leaseback under previous GAAP.
However, pursuant to ASC Topic 842’s sale and leaseback guidance, the transaction would qualify as a completed sale.
See Note 3.
Leases with a duration less than or equal to twelve months are considered short-term leases.
Variable lease payments based on an index or rate are included in the right of use assets and lease liabilities based on the effective rates at lease commencement.
No individual lease is considered significant and there are no leases that have not yet commenced that are considered significant.
The undiscounted future lease payments presented in the table above include payments through the term of the lease, which may include periods beyond the noncancellable term.


item2.txt
The MD&A should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements and accompanying Notes included in Item 1.
"Risk Factors," filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 15, 2019.
Since 1985, we have pursued a business strategy of growth through focused research and development and acquisitions.
We are focused on enhancing stockholder value and improving earnings per share.
During the first quarter of 2019, we continued to repurchase convertible senior debentures in open market and privately-negotiated transactions with holders, further reducing the principal amount of outstanding convertible senior debentures to $21.1 million.
For several years, we implemented aggressive cost reduction programs.
Additionally, we continue to closely monitor our costs, inventory, and capital resources to respond to changing conditions and to ensure we have the management, business processes, and resources to meet our future needs.
See further discussion in “Financial Metrics” and “Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources” below.
Net revenues increased versus the prior year quarter, but decreased versus the prior fiscal quarter.
There is a substantial increase of inventory in the supply chain, which has negatively impacted several key financial metrics.
We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for various items that management believes are not indicative of the intrinsic operating performance of our business.
We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment.
The reconciliations below include certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash.
Our results for the fiscal quarters ended March 30, 2019, December 31, 2018, and March 31, 2018 represent the effects of a strong business environment, our cost reduction programs, and our organic growth initiatives.
These key financial measures and metrics include net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, and the book-to-bill ratio.
Gross profit is generally net revenues less costs of products sold, but also deducts certain other period costs, particularly losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs.
Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues.


item3.txt
Item 3.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 4.
Item 1.


