fls.txt



item1.txt
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
The revenue information is not necessarily indicative of the geographic area in which the end applications containing our products are ultimately consumed because our products tend to be shipped to the locations where our customers manufacture their products.
Revenue from products shipped into China, including Hong Kong, was $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion in the third quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $5.3 billion and $4.9 billion in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
The Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows for the periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018, are not audited but reflect all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature and are necessary for a fair statement of the results of the periods shown.
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Control is considered transferred when title and risk of loss pass, when the customer becomes obligated to pay and, where required, when the customer has accepted the products.
For sales to distributors, payment is due on our standard commercial terms and is not contingent upon resale of the products.
Transfer of control occurs at that point, when title and risk of loss transfers and the customer or distributor becomes obligated to pay for the products pulled from inventory.
Until the products are pulled for use or sale by the customer or distributor, we retain control over the products’ disposition, including the right to pull back or relocate the products.
When collection is at risk, we assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, record a charge in the period such determination is made.
Unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to receive dividends or dividend equivalents, such as our restricted stock units (RSUs), are considered to be participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating EPS.
Under the two-class method, a portion of Net income is allocated to these participating securities and, therefore, is excluded from the calculation of EPS allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 4 million and 5 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the third quarters of 2018 and 2017, and 4 million and 6 million shares outstanding during the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share for these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.


item2.txt
Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash, and return that cash to shareholders.
Our third-quarter revenue was $4.26 billion, net income was $1.57 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.58.
In our core businesses, Analog revenue grew 8 percent and Embedded Processing declined 4 percent from the same quarter a year ago.
Our cash flow from operations of $7.0 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.
This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production.
We continue to expect our ongoing annual operating tax rate to be about 20 percent in 2018 and about 16 percent starting in 2019.
For an explanation of free cash flow and the term “annual operating tax rate,” see the Non-GAAP financial information section.
Revenue of $4.26 billion increased $145 million, or 4 percent, due to higher revenue from Analog, partially offset by lower revenue from Embedded Processing.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Information concerning our risk factors is contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and is incorporated by reference herein.


