Refer to Notes 2 and 5 to our Financial Statements for further detail regarding the adoption of ASC 842.
On October 1, 2018, we acquired Forte, a leading provider of advanced payment solutions headquartered in Allen, Texas for a purchase price of approximately $93 million, (approximately $85 million, excluding cash acquired), and held back approximately $13 million in cash subject to certain tax filings, which was paid in July 2019.
Loss on Extinguishment of Debt.
Additionally, under the terms of the agreement, Comcast has the right to exercise an additional one-year renewal option no later than January 1, 2020, to extend the term of the Agreement through June 30, 2021.
Drawing from real-world knowledge and unparalleled expertise, we design and implement business solutions that make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter so they can focus on evolving their businesses to provide highly sophisticated and competitive multi-product offerings while also delivering increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences that meet the ever-changing demands of their customers across all stages of the customer lifecycle.
A copy of the Comcast agreement and related amendments, with confidential information redacted, is included in the exhibits to our periodic filings with the SEC.
We currently have a $200 million revolving loan facility, our 2018 Revolver.
Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A.
Alternatively, the exercise of the Stock Warrants may be settled with cash based solely on our approval, or if Comcast were to beneficially own or control in excess of 19.99% of our common stock or voting of the Company.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our two largest clients, which are Comcast and Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”).
As of June 30, 2019, we had 5.1 million shares authorized for repurchase remaining under our Stock Repurchase Program.
The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.
See our 2018 10-K for a description of the types of costs that are included in the individual line items for cost of revenues.Long-Term Debt.
These balances can significantly fluctuate between periods due to activity at the end of the period and the day in which the period ends.
The holding period is generally one to four business days depending on the payment model and contractual terms with the client.Portions of the exhibit have been omitted pursuant to SEC rules regarding confidential information.Item 6.