Our 2018 Credit Agreement mandatory repayments and the cash interest expense (based upon current interest rates) for the next twelve months is $7.5 million, and $6.3 million, respectively.
Cloud and Related Solutions Revenues.
As part of the refinancing, we paid $1.4 million of deferred financing costs.
As of March 31, 2019, approximately 95% of our billed accounts receivable balance is less than 60 days past due.
Operating Income.
As described in the Liquidity section above, we believe we have the ability to generate strong cash flows to fund our operating activities and act as a source of funds for our capital resource needs.
We are one of the world’s leading revenue management and digital monetization, customer experience, and payment solutions providers, and a trusted partner to some of the most well-known communications, media, and entertainment companies around the globe.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
We are one of the world’s leading revenue management and digital monetization, customer experience, and payment solutions providers, and a trusted partner to some of the most well-known communications, media, and entertainment companies around the globe.
The purchase agreement includes provisions for $18.8 million of potential future earn-out payments over a four-year measurement period.
Our common stock repurchases are discussed in more detail in Note 8 to our Financial Statements.
As of March 31, 2019, approximately 95% of our billed accounts receivable balance is less than 60 days past due.
Terms of the extension remain consistent with the financial terms and obligations under the existing agreement.While we attempt to maximize natural hedges by incurring expenses in the same currency in which we contract revenue, the related expenses for that revenue could be in one or more differing currencies than the revenue stream.
Long-Term Debt.Item 6.Item 5.