item1.txt
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.  
Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption. The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of ASC 605, “Revenue Recognition” (“ASC 605”), which is also referred to herein as “Legacy GAAP” or the “previous guidance.” Teradyne recorded a net increase  
Teradyne accounts for a contract with a customer when there is written approval, the contract is committed, the rights of the parties, including payment terms, are identified, the contract has commercial substance and consideration is probable of collection.  
Teradyne considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price. Teradyne does not have material variable consideration which could impact the stated purchase price agreed to by Teradyne and the customer.  
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation. Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation. If standalone transactions are not available, Teradyne will estimate the standalone selling price through market assessments or cost plus a reasonable margin analysis. Any discounts from standalone selling price are spread proportionally to each performance obligation.  
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition. If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered. Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period. Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer. For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control. Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms. Typically acceptance of Teradyne’s products and services is a formality as Teradyne delivers similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications. In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, Teradyne will defer revenue recognition until customer acceptance.  
Teradyne sells training and applications support to customers either in standalone transactions or included with system purchases. The training and support allow the customer to use Teradyne’s systems efficiently and effectively. Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each. Both are recognized using an input method of hours consumed as this best depicts the transfer of services to the customer.  
The following tables summarize the impact of ASC 606 to Teradyne’s consolidated financial statements. Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606. Under Legacy GAAP, Teradyne did not recognize revenue prior to acceptance if payment, title, or risk of loss was tied to acceptance. Under ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenue prior to receipt of acceptance if acceptance is deemed a formality.  
 accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. This guidance requires that changes in fair value of equity securities be accounted for directly in earnings. Previously, the changes in fair value were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income on the balance sheet. Teradyne continues to record realized gains in interest income and realized losses in interest expense. The adoption of this new accounting guidance increased the January 1, 2018 retained earnings balance by $3.1 million and decreased the accumulated other comprehensive income balance by the same amount.  
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.  
The MiR acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, the results have been included in Teradyne’s consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. The allocation of the preliminary total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the identifiable intangible assets and net tangible liabilities in the amount of $134.7 million was allocated to goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes. The purchase price and purchase price allocation are preliminary pending the final determination of the fair value of contingent consideration, acquired assets and assumed liabilities. Teradyne expects to finalize the purchase price calculation in the fourth quarter of 2018. MiR’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition.  
Pro forma results for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were adjusted to exclude $2.9 million of acquisition related costs, and $0.4 million of non-recurring expense related to fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory.  
Pro forma results for the nine months ended October 1, 2017 were adjusted to include $2.9 million of acquisition related costs and $0.4 million of non-recurring expense related to fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory.  
Teradyne’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2, and equity securities are classified as Level 1. Acquisition-related contingent consideration is classified as Level 3. Teradyne determines the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration using a Monte Carlo simulation model. Assumptions utilized in the model include forecasted revenues, revenue volatility, earnings before interest and taxes, and discount rate. The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors. These pricing vendors utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities.  
As of September 30, 2018, the significant unobservable inputs used in the Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the Universal Robots contingent consideration include forecasted revenue, revenue volatility, and discount rate. Increases or decreases in the inputs would result in a higher or lower fair value measurement. The maximum payment for the remaining Universal Robots revenue earn-out is $25.0 million.  
As of September 30, 2018, the fair market value of investments in available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses totaled $461.3 million. Of this value, $76.1 million had unrealized losses of $2.1 million for greater than one year and $385.3 million had unrealized losses of $1.3 million for less than one year.  
As of December 31, 2017, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $1,350.9 million. Of this value, $141.0 million had unrealized losses of $1.2 million for greater than one year and $1,209.9 million had unrealized losses of $2.2 million for less than one year.  
Teradyne conducts business in a number of foreign countries, with certain transactions denominated in local currencies. The purpose of Teradyne’s foreign currency management is to minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Teradyne does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  
Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the “Note Hedge Transactions”) with the initial purchasers or their affiliates (the “Option Counterparties”). The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of the common stock that underlie the Notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the Notes of approximately $31.80. The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock.  


item2.txt
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.  
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company. The total purchase price for MiR was approximately $197 million, which included cash paid of approximately $146 million and $51 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of revenue and earnings targets through 2020. The maximum amount of contingent consideration that could be paid is $118.9 million.  
 statement readers with enhanced disclosures. In accordance with ASC 606, revenue is recognized when or as a customer obtains control of promised goods or services. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for fulfillment of the performance obligation. Our primary source of revenue will continue to be from the sale of systems, instruments, robots, and the delivery of services.  
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation. We use standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation. If standalone transactions are not available, we will estimate the standalone selling price through market assessments or cost plus a reasonable margin analysis. Any discounts from standalone selling price are spread over each performance obligation.  
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, we first determine if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition. If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, we recognize revenue as the good or service is delivered. We use input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period. Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer. For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, we will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control. We have concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms. Typically, acceptance of our products and services is a formality as we deliver similar systems, instruments, and robots to standard specifications. In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, we will wait for customer acceptance before recognizing revenue.  
 retrospectively adopted the new accounting guidance on presentation of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs in the first quarter of 2018. This guidance requires the service cost component of net benefit costs to be reported in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as other employee compensation costs. The non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations. Following the adoption of this guidance, we continue to record the service cost component in the same line item as other employee compensation costs and the non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses are reported within other (income) expense, net. In the three months ended October 1, 2017, the retrospective adoption of this standard increased income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of net actuarial pension losses and decreased non-operating (income) expense by the same amount with no impact to net income. In the nine months ended October 1, 2017, the retrospective adoption of this standard decreased income from operations by $1.3 million due to the removal of net actuarial pension gains and increased non-operating (income) expense by the same amount with no impact to net income.  
The increase in Semiconductor Test revenues of $20.4 million, or 5.1%, was driven primarily by an increase in the memory test sales, partially offset by lower mobility test segment sales. The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $25.8 million, or 64.0%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms and the acquisition of MiR, completed in April 2018. MiR added $6.5 million of revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018. The increase in System Test revenues of $14.0 million, or 39.3%, was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers. The increase in Wireless Test revenues of $3.4 million, or 11.0%, was primarily due to higher demand for next generation wireless products, partially offset by lower demand for connectivity test systems.  
We assess the carrying value of our inventory on a quarterly basis by estimating future demand and comparing that demand against on-hand and on-order inventory positions. Forecasted revenue information is obtained from sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future revenue demand. This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory. Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved. Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.  
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, we scrapped $1.7 million and $1.2 million of inventory, respectively. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, we sold $1.0 million and $3.1 million of previously written-down or written-off inventory, respectively. As of September 30, 2018, we had inventory related reserves for inventory, which had been written-down or written-off totaling $104.3 million. We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.  
The increase in income before income taxes in Semiconductor Test was driven primarily by an increase in memory test sales partially offset by lower mobility segment sales. The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers. The increase in income before income taxes in Wireless Test was primarily due to higher demand for next generation wireless products, partially offset by lower demand for connectivity test systems. The decrease in income before income taxes in Industrial Automation was primarily due to increased intangible assets amortization expense from the acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.  


part2.txt
On July 6, 2018 and August 23, 2018, the United States Trade Representative imposed a 25% tariff on two lists of products, including certain Teradyne products that are made in China and imported into the United States. We have submitted requests for exclusion of our products from the tariff, but there is no assurance that our requests will be approved. We have implemented operational changes that will mitigate the impact of the 25% tariff on the import of our impacted products into the United States. As a result, we do not expect that the tariff will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  


