item1.txt
Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption. The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of ASC 605, “Revenue Recognition” (“ASC 605”), which is also referred to herein as “Legacy GAAP” or the “previous guidance.” Teradyne recorded a net increase  
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation. Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation. If standalone transactions are not available, Teradyne will estimate the standalone selling price through market assessments or cost plus a reasonable margin analysis. Any discounts from standalone selling price are spread proportionally to each performance obligation.  
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition. If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered. Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period. Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer. For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control. Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms. Typically acceptance of Teradyne’s products and services is a formality as Teradyne delivers similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications. In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, Teradyne will defer revenue recognition until customer acceptance.  
Teradyne sells training and applications support to customers either in standalone transactions or included with system purchases. The training and support allow the customer to use Teradyne’s systems efficiently and effectively. Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each. Both are recognized using an input method of hours consumed as this best depicts the transfer of services to the customer.  
Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty. These services include telephone support, bug fixes, and when-and-if available upgrades. Standalone selling price for PCS is not directly observable as Teradyne does not sell these services separately. Teradyne has estimated the standalone selling price for these services based on adjusted market assessments. Revenue for PCS is recognized ratably over the performance period.  
The following tables summarize the impact of ASC 606 to Teradyne’s consolidated financial statements. Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606. Under Legacy GAAP, Teradyne did not recognize revenue prior to acceptance if payment, title, or risk of loss was tied to acceptance. Under ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenue prior to receipt of acceptance if acceptance is deemed a formality.  
 changes in fair value were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income on the balance sheet. Teradyne continues to record realized gains in interest income and realized losses in interest expense. The adoption of this new accounting guidance increased the January 1, 2018 retained earnings balance by $3.1 million and decreased the accumulated other comprehensive income balance by the same amount.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” The guidance in this ASU supersedes the lease recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 840, “Leases.” The new standard establishes a right- of-use (“ROU”) model that requires a lessee to record an ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statements of operations. The new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 with early adoption permitted. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. Teradyne is still assessing the potential changes from this ASU, but expects it to have a material impact on its financial position and immaterial impact on its results of operations.  
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.  
 Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020. At July 1, 2018, the maximum amount of contingent consideration that could be paid is $117 million.  
Pro forma results for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were adjusted to exclude $2.3 million and $2.9 million, respectively, of acquisition related costs, and $0.4 million of non-recurring expense related to fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory.  
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots. The Energid acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition. As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  
Teradyne’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2, and equity securities are classified as Level 1. Acquisition-related contingent consideration is classified as Level 3. Teradyne determines the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration using a Monte Carlo simulation model. Assumptions utilized in the model include forecasted revenues, revenue volatility, earnings before interest and taxes, and discount rate. The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors. These pricing vendors utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities.  
Realized gains recorded in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were $0.1 million and $0.4 million, respectively. Realized losses recorded in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were $0.0 million and $1.5 million, respectively. Realized gains recorded in the three and six months ended July 2, 2017 were  
Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale debt securities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Changes in fair value of equity securities are included in other (income) expense, net. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.  
As of July 1, 2018, the significant unobservable inputs used in the Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the Universal Robots contingent consideration include forecasted revenue, revenue volatility and discount rate. Increases or decreases in the inputs would result in a higher or lower fair value measurement. The maximum payment for the remaining Universal Robots revenue earn-out is $25.0 million.  
As of July 1, 2018, the significant unobservable inputs used in the Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the MiR contingent consideration include forecasted revenue, revenue volatility, and discount rate. Increases or decreases in the inputs would result in a higher or lower fair value measurement. As of July 1, 2018, the maximum amount of contingent consideration that could be paid in connection with the acquisition of MiR is $117.0 million. The earn-out periods in connection with the MiR acquisition end on December 31, 2018, December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020.  
As of July 1, 2018, the fair market value of investments in available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses totaled $691.6 million. Of this value, $32.7 million had unrealized losses of $1.6 million for greater than one year and $658.9 million had unrealized losses of $1.7 million for less than one year.  


item2.txt
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.  
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company. The total purchase price for MiR was approximately $197 million, which included cash paid of approximately $146 million and $51 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of revenue and earnings targets through 2020.  
We periodically enter into contracts with its customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with extended warranty obligations. We determine performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract. In order to be distinct, the product or service must perform either on its own or with readily available resources and must be separate within the context of the contract.  
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation. We use standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation. If standalone transactions are not available, we will estimate the standalone selling price through market assessments or cost plus a reasonable margin analysis. Any discounts from standalone selling price are spread over each performance obligation.  
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, we first determine if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition. If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, we recognize revenue as the good or service is delivered. We use input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period. Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer. For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, we will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control. We have concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms. Typically acceptance of our products and services is a formality as we deliver similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications. In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, we will wait for customer acceptance before recognizing revenue.  
We assess the carrying value of our inventory on a quarterly basis by estimating future demand and comparing that demand against on-hand and on-order inventory positions. Forecasted revenue information is obtained from sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future revenue demand. This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory. Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved. Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.  
During the three months ended July 1, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $2.7 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels. Of the $2.7 million of total excess and obsolete provisions, $1.6 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.6 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.3 million was related to System Test, and $0.2 million was related to Industrial Automation.  
During the three months ended July 2, 2017, we recorded an inventory provision of $2.6 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels. Of the $2.6 million of total excess and obsolete provisions, $1.6 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.5 million was related to System Test, and $0.5 million was related to Wireless Test.  
During the three months ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017, we scrapped $1.1 million of inventory. During the three months ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017, we sold $1.9 million and $2.1 million of previously written-down or written-off inventory, respectively. As of July 1, 2018, we had inventory related reserves for inventory, which had been written-down or written-off totaling $103.2 million. We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.  
The decrease in income before income taxes in Semiconductor Test was driven primarily by lower revenues due to a decrease in mobility test segment sales. The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers. The increase in income before income taxes in Wireless Test was primarily due to higher demand for connectivity test systems. The increase in loss before income taxes in Industrial Automation was primarily due to increased intangible assets amortization expense from the acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.  


part2.txt
On July 6, 2018, the United States Trade Representative imposed a 25% tariff on a list of products, including certain Teradyne products that are made in China and imported into the United States. We intend to submit requests for exclusion of our products from the tariff, but there is no assurance that our requests will be approved. We have implemented operational changes that will mitigate the impact of the 25% tariff on the import of our impacted products into the United States. As a result, we do not expect that the tariff will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  


