item1.txt
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements. 
right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for operating leases with terms longer than twelve months. Teradyne adopted this standard and the related amendments (collectively “ASC 842”) on January 1, 2019 and utilized the modified retrospective approach provided by ASU 
Improvements,” that allowed for a cumulative effect adjustment in the period of adoption. Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840). Teradyne also utilized the package of practical expedients permitted 
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when Teradyne has the right to control the use of an identified asset. Teradyne determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use by Teradyne. As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne does not have material leases that have not yet commenced.   
Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset. The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.  
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million. Lemsys strengthens Teradyne’s position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications. The Lemsys acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, the results have been included in Teradyne’s Semiconductor Test segment from the date of acquisition. Teradyne’s final allocation of the purchase price was goodwill of $1.4 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $4.6 million with an average estimated useful life of 5.2 years, and $3.1 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots Aps (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.  
The total purchase price of $197.8 million included $145.2 million of cash paid and $52.6 million of contingent consideration measured at fair value. The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020. The contingent consideration related to revenue for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 in the amount of $30.8 million was paid in March 2019. The remaining maximum contingent consideration that could be paid is $84.1 million.   
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots. The Energid acquisition   
was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition. As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million which is deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  
On June 3, 2019, Teradyne invested $15.0 million in RealWear, Inc. (“RealWear”). RealWear, a private company, develops and sells advanced wearable technology including industrial, hands-free, head-mounted augmented reality devices that make the workplace safer and more productive. Teradyne’s investment in RealWear aligns with its strategy of bringing the power of advanced automation to companies of all sizes to improve the productivity of their employees and the quality of their products and services. The investment was recorded at cost and is evaluated for impairment or an indication of changes in fair value resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer on a quarterly basis. At June 30, 2019 the value of the investment was $15.0 million.  
Revenue from Contracts with Customers” were $562.5 million and $1,054.9 million, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne also recognized $1.7 million and $3.4 million, respectively, of revenues from leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606. 
The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and timing of revenue recognition.    
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne recognized $13.3 million and $33.4 million, respectively, that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balances. During the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne recognized 
 million, respectively, that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balances. This revenue primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and post contract support. Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation. Teradyne expects to recognize 72
available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2 and equity securities are classified as Level 1. Contingent consideration is classified as Level 3. The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors. These pricing vendors utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities. 
Realized gains recorded in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Realized losses recorded in the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $0.1 million.   
available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses totaled $38.3 million. Of this value, $22.7 million had unrealized losses of $0.4 million for greater than one year and $15.6 million had unrealized losses of $0.1 million for less than one year. 
As of December 31, 2018, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $192.0 million. Of this value, $28.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.6 million greater than one year and $163.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.4 million for less than one year.  


item2.txt
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.  
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. The total purchase price was approximately $197.8 million, which included cash paid of approximately $145.2 million and $52.6 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes through 2020. Contingent consideration for 2018 was $30.8 million and was paid in March 2019. The maximum payment for the remaining MiR contingent consideration that could be paid is $84.1 million.  
On January 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million. Lemsys strengthens our position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications. Lemsys is included in our Semiconductor Test segment.  
On June 3, 2019, we invested $15 million in RealWear, Inc. (“RealWear”). RealWear, a private company, develops and sells advanced wearable technology including industrial, hands-free, head-mounted augmented reality devices that make the workplace safer and more productive. Our investment in RealWear aligns with our strategy of bringing the power of advanced automation to companies of all sizes to improve the productivity of their employees and the quality of their products and services.  
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when we have the right to control the use of an identified asset. We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use. As of June 30, 2019, we do not have material leases that have not yet commenced.   
We determine if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset. The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.  
non-lease components as a single lease component. For leases with a term of one year or less we elected not to record the lease asset or liability. The lease payments are recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We include lease costs within cost of revenues and operating expenses. 
The increase in Semiconductor Test revenues of $14.8 million, or 4.1%, was driven primarily by an increase in semiconductor test sales for 5G infrastructure and higher service revenues, partially offset by lower microcontroller, power linear and mobile image sensor test sales.  
on-order inventory positions. Forecasted revenue information is obtained from sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future revenue demand. This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory. Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved. Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.  


part2.txt
We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments. We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities. Compliance with these laws has not significantly limited our sales, but could significantly limit them in the future. Changes in, and responses to, U.S. trade policy could reduce the competitiveness of our products and cause our sales to drop, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  


