item1.txt
Improvements,” that allowed for a cumulative effect adjustment in the period of adoption. Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840). Teradyne also utilized the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance which included the carry-forward of historical lease classification. Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively. Operating lease liabilities were calculated using the discount rate on January 1, 2019. The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share. 
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when Teradyne has the right to control the use of an identified asset. Teradyne determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use by Teradyne. As of September 29, 2019, Teradyne does not have material leases that have not yet commenced.  
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million. Lemsys strengthens Teradyne’s position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications. The Lemsys acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, the results have been included in Teradyne’s Semiconductor Test segment from the date of acquisition. Teradyne’s final allocation of the purchase price was goodwill of $1.4 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $4.6 million with an average estimated useful life of 5.2 years, and $3.1 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots Aps (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.  
The total purchase price of $197.8 million included $145.2 million of cash paid and $52.6 million of contingent consideration measured at fair value. The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020. The contingent consideration related to revenue for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 in the amount of $30.8 million was paid in March 2019. The remaining maximum contingent consideration that could be paid is $81.0 million.  
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots. The Energid acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition. As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million which is deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  
Revenue from Contracts with Customers” were $580.6 million and $1,635.5 million, respectively. For the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, Teradyne also recognized $1.5 million and $4.9 million, respectively, of revenues from leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606. 
Revenue from Contracts with Customers” were $564.5 million and $1,571.0 million, respectively. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $2.3 million and $10.2 million, respectively, of revenues from leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606. 
During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, Teradyne recognized $14.2 million and $47.6 million, respectively, that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balances. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne recognized $24.5 million and $70.9 million, respectively, that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balances. This revenue primarily relates to 
non-recourse basis to third-party financial institutions pursuant to factoring agreements. Teradyne accounts for these transactions as sales of receivables and presents cash proceeds 
available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2 and equity securities are classified as Level 1. Contingent consideration is classified as Level 3. The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors. These pricing vendors utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities.  
Realized gains recorded in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 were $0.5 million and $0.7 million, respectively. Realized losses recorded in the nine months ended September 29, 2019 were $0.2 million. Realized gains recorded in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $0.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively. Realized losses recorded in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $1.6 million. Realized gains are included in interest income and realized losses are included in interest expense.  
Unrealized gains on equity securities recorded in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 were $0.1 million and $3.8 million, respectively. Unrealized losses on equity securities recorded in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 were $0.2 million. Unrealized gains on equity securities recorded in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $1.0 million and $1.4 million, respectively. Unrealized gains on equity securities are included in interest income and unrealized losses are included in interest expense. Unrealized gains and losses on 
available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses totaled $60.7 million. Of this value, $4.9 million had unrealized losses of $0.1 million for greater than one year and $55.8 million had unrealized losses of $0.1 million for less than one year. 
As of December 31, 2018, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $192.0 million. Of this value, $28.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.6 million greater than one year and $163.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.4 million for less than one year.  
On January 1, 2019, Teradyne adopted ASC 842 using the modified retrospective approach. Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840). Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively. The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.  
Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the “Note Hedge Transactions”) with the initial purchasers or their affiliates (the “Option Counterparties”). The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of the common stock that underlie the Notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the Notes of $31.70. The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock.  
“Derivatives and Hedging—Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity,” and other relevant literature, and determined that it met the criteria for classification as an equity transaction and is considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock. As a result, Teradyne recorded the proceeds from the warrants as an increase to additional 
470-20 requires Teradyne to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion feature) components of the Notes in a manner that reflects Teradyne’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the date of issuance when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. Teradyne allocated $100.8 million of the $460.0 million principal amount of the Notes to the equity component, which represents a discount to the debt and will be amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method through December 2023. Accordingly, Teradyne’s effective annual interest rate on the Notes will be approximately 5.0%. The Notes are classified as long-term debt in the balance sheet based on their December 15, 2023 maturity date. Debt issuance costs of approximately $7.2 million are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the seven-year term of the Notes. As of September 29, 2019, debt issuance costs were approximately $4.6 million.  


item2.txt
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.  
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. The total purchase price was approximately $197.8 million, which included cash paid of approximately $145.2 million and $52.6 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes through 2020. Contingent consideration for 2018 was $30.8 million and was paid in March 2019. The maximum payment for the remaining MiR contingent consideration that could be paid is $81.0 million.  
On January 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million. Lemsys strengthens our position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications. Lemsys is included in our Semiconductor Test segment.  
On June 3, 2019, we invested $15 million in RealWear, Inc. (“RealWear”). RealWear, a private company, develops and sells advanced wearable technology including industrial, hands-free, head-mounted augmented reality devices that make the workplace safer and more productive. Our investment in RealWear aligns with our strategy of bringing the power of advanced automation to companies of all sizes to improve the productivity of their employees and the quality of their products and services.  
On October 18, 2019, we entered into an agreement to acquire 100% of the equity of AutoGuide, LLC (“AutoGuide”), a maker of high-payload autonomous mobile robots (AMRs), an emerging and fast growing segment of the global forklift market for $58 million of cash and up to $107 million in earn-outs potentially through 2022. AutoGuide is based in Chelmsford, MA. AutoGuide’s AMRs are used for material transport of payloads up to 4,500 kg in manufacturing, warehouse and logistics applications. These products complement MiR’s lower payload products. The acquisition of AutoGuide is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2019, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approval. AutoGuide will be included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.  
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when we have the right to control the use of an identified asset. We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use. As of September 29, 2019, we do not have material leases that have not yet commenced.  
We determine if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset. The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.  
non-lease components as a single lease component. For leases with a term of one year or less we elected not to record the lease asset or liability. The lease payments are recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We include lease costs within cost of revenues and operating expenses. 
During the three months ended September 29, 2019, we recorded an inventory provision of $3.0 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $1.9 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.7 million was related to Wireless Test and $0.4 million was related to System Test.  
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $3.3 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $2.1 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.7 million was related to Wireless Test, and $0.4 million was related to Industrial Automation.  


part2.txt
We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments. We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities. Compliance with these laws has not significantly limited our sales, but could significantly limit them in the future. Changes in, and responses to, U.S. trade policy could reduce the competitiveness of our products and cause our sales to drop, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  


