item1.txt
 Improvements,” that allowed for a cumulative effect adjustment in the period of adoption. Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840). Teradyne also utilized the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance which included the carry-forward of historical lease classification. Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively. Operating lease liabilities were calculated using the discount rate on January 1, 2019. The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.  
Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset. The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.  
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million. Lemsys strengthens Teradyne’s position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications. The Lemsys acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, the results have been included in Teradyne’s Semiconductor Test segment from the date of acquisition. As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s preliminary purchase price allocation was goodwill of $1.2 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $5.5 million with an average estimated useful life of 4.9 years, and $2.4 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots Aps (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.  
The MiR acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, the results have been included in Teradyne’s consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. MiR’s products will help expand the Industrial Automation segment, which is a key component of Teradyne’s growth strategy. The allocation of the total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the identifiable intangible assets and net tangible liabilities in the amount of $136.0 million was allocated to goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes. MiR’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition.  
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots. The Energid acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition. As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million which is deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balance was $19.5 million and $21.8 million, respectively, and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and post contract support. Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation. Teradyne expects to recognize 72% of the remaining performance obligation in the next 12 months, 22% in 1-3 years, and the remainder thereafter.  
Teradyne sells certain trade accounts receivables on a non-recourse basis to third-party financial institutions pursuant to factoring agreements. Teradyne accounts for these transactions as sales of receivables and presents cash proceeds as a cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Total trade accounts receivable sold under the factoring agreements were $41.7 million and $3.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, respectively. Factoring fees for the sales of receivables were recorded in interest expense and were not material.  
Teradyne’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2 and equity securities are classified as Level 1. Contingent consideration is classified as Level 3. The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors. These pricing vendors utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities.  
Realized gains recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 were $0.1 million and $0.3 million, respectively. Realized losses recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 were $0.1 million and $1.5 million, respectively. Realized gains are included in interest income and realized losses are included in interest expense.  
Teradyne conducts business in a number of foreign countries, with certain transactions denominated in local currencies. The purpose of Teradyne’s foreign currency management is to minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Teradyne does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  
On January 1, 2019, Teradyne adopted ASC 842 using the modified retrospective approach. Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840). Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively. The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.  
On December 12, 2016, Teradyne completed a private offering of $460.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.25% convertible senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) due December 15, 2023 and received net proceeds, after issuance costs, of approximately $450.8 million, $33.0 million of which was used to pay the net cost of the convertible note hedge transactions and $50.1 million of which was used to repurchase 2.0 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock under its existing stock repurchase program from purchasers of the Notes in privately negotiated transactions effected through one of the initial purchasers or its affiliates conducted concurrently with the pricing of the Note offering. The Notes will mature on December 15, 2023, unless earlier repurchased or converted. The Notes bear interest from December 12, 2016 at a rate of 1.25% per year payable  
Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the “Note Hedge Transactions”) with the initial purchasers or their affiliates (the “Option Counterparties”). The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of the common stock that underlie the Notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the Notes of $31.70. The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock.  
 considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock as the terms of the Note Hedge Transactions do not contain an exercise contingency and the settlement amount equals the difference between the fair value of a fixed number of Teradyne’s shares and a fixed strike price. Because the only variable that can affect the settlement amount is Teradyne’s stock price, which is an input to the fair value of a fixed-for-fixed option contract, the convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock.  
The provisions of ASC 470-20, “Debt with Conversion and Other Options,” are applicable to the Notes. ASC 470-20 requires Teradyne to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion feature) components of the Notes in a manner that reflects Teradyne’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the date of issuance when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. Teradyne allocated $100.8 million of the $460.0 million principal amount of the Notes to the equity component, which represents a discount to the debt and will be amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method through December 2023. Accordingly, Teradyne’s effective annual interest rate on the Notes will be approximately 5.0%. The Notes are classified as long-term debt in the balance sheet based on their December 15, 2023 maturity date. Debt issuance costs of approximately $7.2 million are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the seven year term of the Notes. As of March 31, 2019, debt issuance costs were approximately $5.1 million.  
As of March 31, 2019, the remaining unamortized discount was $76.4 million, which will be amortized over 4.7 years using the effective interest rate method. The carrying amount of the equity component was $100.8 million. As of March 31, 2019, the if-converted value of the Notes was $578.1 million.  
On April 27, 2015, Teradyne entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the lenders party thereto. The Credit Agreement provides for a five-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of up to $350 million (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Agreement further provides that, subject to customary conditions, Teradyne may seek to obtain from existing or new lenders incremental commitments under the Credit Facility in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $150 million.  
Teradyne is not required to repay any loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity, subject to certain customary exceptions. Teradyne is permitted to prepay all or any portion of the loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity without premium or penalty, other than customary LIBOR breakage costs.  
Teradyne generally provides a one-year warranty on its products, commencing upon installation, acceptance, delivery or shipment. A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenues for estimated warranty expense based on historical experience. Related costs are charged to the warranty accrual as incurred. The warranty balance below is included in other accrued liabilities on the balance sheet.  


item2.txt
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.  
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. The total purchase price was approximately $198 million, which included cash paid of approximately $145 million and $53 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes through 2020. Contingent consideration for 2018 was $31 million and was paid in March 2019. The maximum payment for the remaining MiR contingent consideration that could be paid is $83.2 million.  
On January 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million. Lemsys strengthens our position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications. Lemsys is included in our Semiconductor Test segment.  
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when we have the right to control the use of an identified asset. We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use. As of March 31, 2019, we do not have material leases that have not yet commenced.  
We determine if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset. The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.  
Our contracts often include non-lease components such as common area maintenance. We elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. For leases with a term of one year or less we elected not to record the lease asset or liability. The lease payments are recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We include lease costs within cost of revenues and operating expenses  
The increase in System Test revenues of $15.2 million, or 35.3%, was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and higher sales in Production Board Test. The increase in Wireless Test revenues of $6.5 million, or 28.9%, was primarily due to higher demand for millimeter wave and cellular test products.  
We assess the carrying value of our inventory on a quarterly basis by estimating future demand and comparing that demand against on-hand and on-order inventory positions. Forecasted revenue information is obtained from sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future revenue demand. This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory. Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved. Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.  
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded an inventory provision of $2.4 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $1.2 million was related to Semiconductor Test and $0.5 million was related to System Test.  


part2.txt



