fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.


item1.txt
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell" or the "Company"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States ("U.S.") generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), under the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
Under the new guidance, an entity that measures inventory using FIFO or average cost should measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation.
The standard requires cash flows from excess tax benefits and deficiencies, previously classified as a financing activity, to be classified as an operating activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The tax deficiencies were recorded as an operating activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows during the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Also, as part of the adoption, a $9.7 adjustment was recorded to increase retained earnings and deferred tax assets to recognize the cumulative amount of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits as of October 1, 2017.
As such, $15.5 of cash outflows for tax withholding payments were reclassified from an operating activity to a financing activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the first six months of fiscal 2017.
In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries and across capital markets.


item2.txt
While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the impact of acquisitions includes net sales and segment profit activity for Jack Black, which was acquired in March 2018.
For the six months ended March 31, 2018, the impact of acquisitions also includes October 2017 net sales and segment profit for Bulldog Skincare Holdings Limited (“Bulldog”), which was acquired in October 2016.
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as Jack Black integration costs, restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the gloves business, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act.
Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in United States ("U.S.") dollars.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
•Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union.
•Indemnifications under the Separation agreement with Energizer Holdings, Inc. ("Energizer") or Energizer’s inability to satisfy indemnification obligations in the future could negatively impact our financial results.
Refer to Note 2 of our Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding the acquisition of Jack Black and Note 3 of our Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the sale of the Playtex household gloves business.
The personal care product categories are highly competitive, both in the U.S. and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space.
Our priority is to deliver our strategic objectives, focusing on maximizing sales and profit growth through innovation, product line extensions and share gains, and we continue to target improved working capital management as a key business objective.
On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States, for approximately $90.3, net of cash acquired.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.
We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions.


