fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.


item1.txt
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell" or the "Company"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU"), which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
The Company adopted this guidance as of October 1, 2017 and noted the adoption did not have an impact on the financial statements or the related disclosures.
Under the new guidance, an entity that measures inventory using FIFO or average cost should measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation.
The standard requires cash flows from excess tax benefits and deficiencies, previously classified as a financing activity, to be classified as an operating activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The excess tax deficiencies were recorded as an operating activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows during the first quarter of 2018.
Also, as part of the adoption, a $9.7 adjustment was recorded to increase retained earnings and deferred tax assets to recognize the cumulative amount of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits as of October 1, 2017.
In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU, which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries and across capital markets.
During 2016, the FASB issued three ASUs, clarifying the revenue recognition implementation guidance on various topics included within the original ASU.
The new guidance will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2018, with the option of using either a full retrospective or modified retrospective method.


item2.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.
While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions and dispositions (including the disposition of the gloves business and acquisition of Bulldog).
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as the gain on the disposition of the gloves business, restructuring charges, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act.
Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry.
In addition, we believe that data regarding the industry, market size and our market position and market share within such industry provide general guidance but are inherently imprecise.
Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in United States ("U.S.") dollars.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
•A failure of a key information technology system or a breach of our information security could adversely impact our ability to conduct business.
The personal care product categories are highly competitive, both in the U.S. and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space.
Our priority is to deliver our strategic objectives, focusing on maximizing sales and profit growth through innovation, product line extensions and share gains, as well as improving working capital management.
On October 26, 2017, the Company finalized its sale of the Playtex® gloves business to a household products company (the “Acquirer”) for $19.0.


item3.txt
For further information on our foreign currency derivative instruments, see Note 13 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


