fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018 (the “2018 Annual Report”).


item1.txt
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Edgewell” or the “Company”), is one of the world’s largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care, and infant care categories.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), under the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Audited Annual Consolidated Financial Statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018 (“2018 Annual Report”).
Certain amounts within Cash Flows from Operating Activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries, and across capital markets.
During 2016, the FASB issued three ASUs clarifying the revenue recognition implementation guidance on various topics included within the original ASU.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $5.3 inventory return asset included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 1, 2018 with an offsetting increase to the returns reserve in Other current liabilities.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and distributions received from equity method investees, among others.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16 intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an ASU clarifying the definition of a business, reducing the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated, and providing a framework to assist entities in evaluating whether both an input and a substantive process are present.
The amendments set forth in the ASU specify that when the fair value of the gross assets acquired or disposed of is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similarly identifiable assets, the integrated set of assets and activities is not a business.
The guidance also requires that an integrated set of assets and activities must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output to be considered a business and removes the evaluation of whether a market participant could replace the missing elements.
The amendments provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases.


item2.txt
This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as “adjusted” or “organic” and exclude items such as impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s, Inc. (“Harry’s”) acquisition and integration planning costs, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, Sun Care reformulation charges, the Jack Black, L.L.C.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions, and dispositions (including the acquisition of Jack Black through February 2019 and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business through October 2018).
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s acquisition and integration planning costs, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, Sun Care reformulation charges, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expense, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act.
•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s acquisition and integration planning costs, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, Sun Care reformulation charges, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expense, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.
Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in U.S. dollars.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
On May 9, 2019, we announced that we have entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “ Merger Agreement”) under which we will combine with Harry’s in a cash and stock transaction that values Harry’s at $1,370 (the “Merger”).
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement and based on our closing share price on May 8, 2019, approximately 79% of the total value of the transaction will be paid in cash and 21% will be paid in shares of our common stock.
The Merger has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both our Company and Harry’s and is expected to close by the end of the first quarter of the 2020 calendar year, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and receipt of regulatory clearances.
The Merger of Edgewell and Harry’s brings together complementary capabilities to create a next-generation consumer products platform with an expansive runway for accelerated topline growth and enhanced value creation.
On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men’s skincare products company, for approximately $90.2, net of cash acquired.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



