Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Foreign Currency In the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, we generated approximately 20% and 20%, respectively, of our revenues outside the United States.
We typically make international sales through our foreign branches or our Logility branch and denominate those sales typically in U.S. dollars, British pounds sterling or euros.
However, expenses incurred in connection with these sales are typically denominated in the local currencies.
We recorded exchange rate gains of approximately $75,000 for both the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, compared to exchange rate losses of approximately $56,000 and  


Table of Contents 

 $236,000 for the three months and nine months ended January 31, 2017, respectively.
We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $456,000 and $455,000 exchange gain or loss for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively.
We have not engaged in any hedging activities.
Interest Rates and Other Market Risks.
We have no debt, and therefore limit our discussion of interest rate risk to risk associated with our investment profile.
We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio of trading investments with high credit quality and relatively short average maturities.
These instruments include, but are not limited to, money-market instruments, bank time deposits, and taxable and tax-advantaged variable rate and fixed rate obligations of corporations, municipalities, and national, state, and local government agencies, in accordance with an investment policy approved by our Board of Directors.
These instruments are denominated in U.S.
Dollars.
The fair market value of these instruments as of January 31, 2018 was approximately $84.0 million compared to $72.8 million as of January 31, 2017.
We also hold cash balances in accounts with commercial banks in the United States and foreign countries.
These cash balances represent operating balances only and are invested in short-term time deposits of the local bank.
Such operating cash balances held at banks outside the United States are denominated in the local currency and are minor.
Many of our investments carry a degree of interest rate risk.
When interest rates fall, our income from investments in variable-rate securities declines.
When interest rates rise, the fair market value of our investments in fixed-rate securities declines.
In addition, our investments in equity securities are subject to stock market volatility.
Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities, which have seen a decline in market value due to changes in interest rates.
We attempt to mitigate risk by holding fixed-rate securities to maturity, but, if our liquidity needs force us to sell fixed-rate securities prior to maturity, we may experience a loss of principal.
Inflation.
Although we cannot accurately determine the amounts attributable thereto, we have been affected by inflation through increased costs of employee compensation and other operational expenses.
To the extent permitted by the marketplace for our products and services, we attempt to recover increases in costs by periodically increasing prices.
