Item 4.
Controls and Procedures

Definition and Limitations of Disclosure Controls and Procedures


Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures at June 30, 2019, the end of the period covered by this report.
Based on this evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, at June 30, 2019, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized, and reported on a timely basis, and (ii) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, has evaluated any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2019.
Based on this evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, at June 30, 2019, there have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings

In December 2018, we received a decision from the Swedish Tax Agency (“STA”) informing us of an audit assessment of a Swedish subsidiary of King for the 2016 tax year (“Initial Decision”).
The Initial Decision described the basis for issuing a transfer pricing assessment of approximately 3.5kr billion (approximately $379 million), primarily concerning an alleged intercompany asset transfer.
On June 17, 2019, we received a reassessment from the STA (“Reassessment”) which changed the Initial Decision based on a revision of the transfer pricing approach reflected in King’s 2016 Swedish tax return and removal of the alleged intercompany asset transfer that was the basis of the Initial Decision.
The STA also, at the same time, reassessed the 2017 tax year on the same transfer pricing basis as 2016.
The transfer pricing approach reflected in the Reassessment for both 2016 and 2017 remains subject to further review by taxing authorities in other jurisdictions.
In July 2019, the Company made a payment to the STA for the Reassessment for the 2016 and 2017 tax years, which did not result in a significant impact to our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In addition, we are party to routine claims, suits, investigations, audits, and other proceedings arising from the ordinary course of business, including with respect to intellectual property rights, contractual claims, labor and employment matters, regulatory matters, tax matters, unclaimed property matters, compliance matters, and collection matters.
In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, such routine claims and lawsuits are not significant and we do not expect them to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors

Various risks associated with our business are described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Item 5.
Other Information

On August 5, 2019, Stephen Wereb, age 54, our Chief Accounting Officer, notified us of his decision to retire from the Company, effective August 15, 2019, in order to pursue personal interests.
Mr. Wereb has been with the Company for 13 years and his retirement is not the result of any dispute related to accounting policies or internal controls or any other disagreement with the Company.
Upon the effectiveness of Mr. Wereb’s retirement, Dennis Durkin will assume Mr. Wereb’s responsibilities as the Company’s principal accounting officer until a successor is named.
Mr. Durkin, age 48, has served as our Chief Financial Officer and President of Emerging Businesses since January 2019.
Mr. Durkin joined the Company in March 2012 as our Chief Financial Officer and served in that role until May 2017.
He served as our Chief Corporate Officer from May 2017 until January 2019.
Item 6.
Exhibits

The exhibits listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index are hereby incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT INDEX



SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
