Amounts as of October 28, 2018 are derived from the October 28, 2018 audited consolidated financial statements.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 28, 2018 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2018 (2018 Form 10-K).
Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year.
Fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contain 52 weeks, and the first three months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contained 13 weeks.
All financial statements and disclosures have been recast to comply with this new guidance.
On an ongoing basis, Applied evaluates its estimates, including those related to standalone selling price (SSP) related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable and sales allowances, fair values of financial instruments, inventories, intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment, fair values of share-based awards, and income taxes, among others.
Applied adopted various amended guidance during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.
This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified.
Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are presented on a net basis in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
Applied accounts for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as costs to fulfill our promise to transfer the associated products.
Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized.
Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product, current and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs.
Applied’s warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period.
If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applied’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required.
Applied also sells extended warranty contracts to its customers which provide an extension of the standard warranty coverage period of up to 2 years.
Applied receives payment at the inception of the contract and recognizes revenue ratably over the extended warranty coverage period, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the extended warranty.
Applied recognizes revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which Applied expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Applied determines revenue recognition through the following five steps; (1) identification of the contract(s) with customers, (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determination of the transaction price, (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied.
Applied sells manufacturing equipment, services, and spare parts directly to its customers in the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
Collectability is assessed based on the customer’s creditworthiness determined by reviewing the customer’s published credit and financial information, historical payment experience, as well as other relevant factors.
Applied’s service agreements are considered one performance obligation and may include multiple goods and services that we provide to the customer to deliver against a performance metric.
Judgment is used to determine whether multiple promised goods or services in a contract should be accounted for separately or as a group.
The transaction price for Applied’s contracts with customers may include fixed and variable consideration.
Applied includes variable consideration in the transaction price to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations.
A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation identified within the contract.
Applied generally estimates the standalone selling price of a distinct performance obligation based on historical cost plus an appropriate margin.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, Applied allocates the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation using the relative standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.
Recognizing the revenue as performance obligations are satisfied.
Revenue from service agreements is recognized over time as customers receive the benefits of services.
The incremental costs to obtain a contract are not material.
Generally, the majority of payments are due within a certain number of days from shipment of goods or performance of service.
The remainder is typically due upon customer technical acceptance.
Applied typically receives deposits on future deliverables from customers in the Display and Adjacent Markets segment and, in certain instances, may also receive deposits from customers in the Applied Global Services segment.
Applied’s payment terms do not generally contain a significant financing component.
All of Applied’s investments, except equity investments held in privately-held companies, are classified as available-for-sale at the respective balance sheet dates.
Investments classified as available-for-sale are measured and recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Interest earned on cash and investments, as well as realized gains and losses on sale of securities, are included in interest and other income, net in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
Equity investments without readily determinable fair value are measured at cost, less impairment, adjusted by observable price changes.
Adjustments resulting from impairments and observable prices changes will be recorded in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
In March 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which requires companies to present the service cost component of net benefit cost in the same line items in which they report compensation cost.
The adoption of this guidance resulted in reclassification of other components of net benefit costs outside of income from operations and did not have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that clarifies the definition of a business to help companies evaluate whether acquisition or disposal transactions should be accounted for as asset groups or as businesses.
The impact of the adoption depends on the facts and circumstances of future acquisition or disposal transactions.
Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
In August 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which addresses classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments related to the statement of cash flows.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact and only impacts disclosures in Applied' s consolidated condensed statements of cash flow.
Revenue Recognition.
In May 2014, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that requires revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services and requires certain additional disclosures.
Refer to the Impacts to Previously Reported Results section below for the impact of the adoption of the standard to Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
For all periods prior to the date of initial adoption of this standard, Applied elected to use the practical expedient pursuant to which Applied excluded disclosures of both transaction prices allocated to remaining performance obligations and when these performance obligations are expected to be recognized as revenue.
The most significant impact from the adoption of this standard is fewer constraints on revenue recognition upon shipment of manufacturing equipment.
Adoption of the retirement benefits standard did not have any impact on Applied’s Consolidated Balance Sheet or Consolidated Condensed Statement of Cash Flows.
Derivatives and Hedging.
In August 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that modifies the recognition and presentation of hedge accounting to better align an entity’s risk management strategies and financial reporting for hedging relationships.
The authoritative guidance expands the application of hedge accounting for non-financial and financial risk components and eases certain hedge effectiveness assessment requirements.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, with early adoption permitted.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Goodwill Impairment.
In January 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies the process required to test goodwill for impairment.
The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for lease accounting, which requires lessees to recognize lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for certain lease arrangements that are classified as operating leases under the previous standard, and to provide for enhanced disclosures.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and should be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Diluted earnings per share is determined using the weighted average number of common shares and potential common shares (representing the dilutive effect of stock options, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchase plan shares) outstanding during the period.
Applied’s net income has not been adjusted for any period presented for purposes of computing basic or diluted earnings per share due to the Company’s non-complex capital structure.
Potentially weighted dilutive securities attributable to outstanding stock options and restricted stock units are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share where the combined exercise price and average unamortized fair value are greater than the average market price of Applied common stock, and therefore their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.
Applied determined that the gross unrealized losses on its marketable fixed-income securities as of January 27, 2019 and January 28, 2018 were temporary in nature and therefore it did not recognize any impairment of its marketable fixed-income securities during the three months ended January 27, 2019 or January 28, 2018.
Impairment charges on equity investments in privately-held companies during the three months ended January 27, 2019 and January 28, 2018 were not material.
These impairment charges are included in interest and other income, net in the Consolidated Condensed Statement of Operations.
Applied’s financial assets are measured and recorded at fair value, except for equity investments in privately-held companies.
These equity investments are generally accounted for under the measurement alternative, defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes and are periodically assessed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that a decline in value may have occurred.
Applied’s nonfinancial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
In determining the fair value of investments, Applied uses pricing information from pricing services that value securities based on quoted market prices and models that utilize observable market inputs.
In the event a fair value estimate is unavailable from a pricing service, Applied generally obtains non-binding price quotes from brokers.
Applied then reviews the information provided by the pricing services or brokers to determine the fair value of its short-term and long-term investments.
In addition, to validate pricing information obtained from pricing services, Applied periodically performs supplemental analysis on a sample of securities.
Applied reviews any significant unanticipated differences identified through this analysis to determine the appropriate fair value.
As of January 27, 2019, substantially all of Applied’s available-for-sale, short-term and long-term investments were recognized at fair value that was determined based upon observable inputs.
Applied’s equity investments with readily determinable values consist of publicly traded equity securities.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-01, these investments are measured at fair value using quoted prices for identical assets in an active market and the changes in fair value of these equity investments are recognized in the consolidated statements of operations.
Applied adopted the standard using a modified retrospective transition method, and reclassified the unrealized gains on these equity investments of $21 million to retained earnings as a cumulative-effect adjustment on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Investments with remaining effective maturities of 12 months or less from the balance sheet date are classified as short-term investments.
Investments with remaining effective maturities of more than 12 months from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term investments.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the three months ended January 27, 2019 or January 28, 2018.
Applied did not have any financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements as of January 27, 2019 or October 28, 2018.
Applied’s equity investments without readily determinable values consist of equity investments in privately-held companies.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-01, Applied elected the measurement alternative, defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes on a prospective basis for certain equity investments without readily determinable fair values and is required to account for any subsequent observable changes in fair value within the statements of operations.
Applied adopted the guidance prospectively, effective October 29, 2018, and there was no impact to Applied’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
These investments are periodically assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that a decline in value may have occurred.
Impairment charges on equity investments in privately-held companies during the three months ended January 27, 2019 and January 28, 2018 were not material.
The carrying amounts of Applied’s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, notes payable - short term, and accounts payable and accrued expenses, approximate fair value due to their short maturities.
As of January 27, 2019, the aggregate principal amount of long-term debt was $5.4 billion and the estimated fair value was $5.5 billion.
As of October 28, 2018, the aggregate principal and estimated fair value amounts of long-term debt were both $5.4 billion.
The estimated fair value of long-term debt is determined by Level 2 inputs and is based primarily on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues.
See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for further detail of existing debt.
Applied uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward exchange contracts and currency option contracts, to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions expected to occur typically within the next 24 months.
The purpose of Applied’s foreign currency management is to mitigate the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated revenues, costs and eventual cash flows.
The terms of currency instruments used for hedging purposes are generally consistent with the timing of the transactions being hedged.
Applied does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Derivative instruments and hedging activities, including foreign currency exchange and interest rate contracts, are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge treatment, as well as the ineffective portion of any hedges, are recognized currently in earnings.
All of Applied’s derivative financial instruments are recorded at their fair value in other current assets or in accounts payable and accrued expenses.
Hedges related to anticipated transactions are designated and documented at the inception of the hedge as cash flow hedges and foreign exchange derivatives are typically entered into once per month.
Cash flow hedges are evaluated for effectiveness quarterly.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on these hedges is reported as a component of AOCI in stockholders’ equity and is reclassified into earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings.
The majority of the after-tax net income or loss related to foreign exchange derivative instruments included in AOCI as of January 27, 2019 is expected to be reclassified into earnings within 12 months.
Changes in the fair value of currency forward exchange and option contracts due to changes in time value are excluded from the assessment of effectiveness.
Both ineffective hedge amounts and hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings.
If the transaction being hedged is no longer probable to occur, or if a portion of any derivative is deemed to be ineffective, Applied promptly recognizes the gain or loss on the associated financial instrument in earnings.
The amount recognized due to discontinuance of cash flow hedges that were probable not to occur by the end of the originally specified time period was not significant for the three months ended January 27, 2019 and January 28, 2018.
Additionally, forward exchange contracts are generally used to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities.
These derivatives are typically entered into once per month and are not designated for hedge accounting treatment.
Accordingly, changes in the fair value of these hedges are recorded in earnings to offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged.
The fair values of foreign exchange derivative instruments as of January 27, 2019 and October 28, 2018 were not material.
If Applied’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade, it would be in violation of credit risk contingent provisions of the derivative instruments discussed above, and certain counterparties to the derivative instruments could request immediate payment on derivative instruments in net liability positions.
The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk related contingent features that were in a net liability position was immaterial as of January 27, 2019.
Applied has agreements with various financial institutions to sell accounts receivable and discount promissory notes from selected customers.
Applied, from time to time, also discounts letters of credit issued by customers through various financial institutions.
The discounting of letters of credit depends on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to discount the letters of credit and the cost of such arrangements.
Applied did not discount letters of credit issued by customers or discount promissory notes during the three months ended January 27, 2019 and January 28, 2018. Financing charges on the sale of receivables and discounting of letters of credit are included in interest expense in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations and were not material for all periods presented.
Applied sells its products principally to manufacturers within the semiconductor and display industries.
While Applied believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate and represents its best estimate as of January 27, 2019, it continues to closely monitor customer liquidity and industry and economic conditions, which may result in changes to Applied’s estimates.
Contract assets primarily result from receivables for goods transferred to customers and where payment is conditional upon technical sign off and not just the passage of time.
Applied’s contract assets and liabilities are reported in a net position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
Contract assets are generally classified as current and included in Other Current Assets in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
Contract liabilities are classified as current or non-current based on the timing of when performance obligations will be satisfied and associated revenue is expected to be recognized.
The increase in net contract liabilities was primarily due to netted contract assets being classified to accounts receivable as conditions for payments were met.
There were no impairment losses recognized on Applied's accounts receivables and contract assets during the three months ended January 27, 2019.
As of January 27, 2019, the amount of remaining unsatisfied performance obligations on contracts with an original estimated duration of one year or more was approximately $232 million, which is expected to be recognized within the next 36 months.
Applied has elected the available practical expedient to exclude the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less.
Included in finished goods inventory are $8 million as of January 27, 2019, and $19 million as of October 28, 2018, of newly-introduced systems at customer locations where the sales transaction did not meet Applied’s revenue recognition criteria as set forth in Note 1.
Applied’s methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established and generally accepted valuation techniques.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the purchase price over the sum of the amounts assigned to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired less liabilities assumed.
Applied assigns assets acquired (including goodwill) and liabilities assumed to one or more reporting units as of the date of acquisition.
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets requires significant judgment, especially in emerging markets.
To test goodwill for impairment, Applied first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.
If it is concluded that this is the case, Applied then performs the two-step goodwill impairment test.
Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required.
Applied determines the fair value of each of its reporting units based on a weighting of income and market approaches.
If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill.
If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference.
As of January 27, 2019, Applied’s reporting units include Semiconductor Product Group and Imaging and Process Control Group, which combine to form the Semiconductor Systems reporting segment, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets.
The evaluation of goodwill and intangible assets for impairment requires the exercise of significant judgment.
Applied amortizes purchased intangible assets with finite lives using the straight-line method over the estimated economic lives of the assets, ranging from 1 to 15 years.
Applied evaluates long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable.
Applied assesses the fair value of the assets based on the amount of the undiscounted future cash flow that the assets are expected to generate and recognizes an impairment loss when estimated undiscounted future cash flow expected to result from the use of the asset, plus net proceeds expected from disposition of the asset, if any, are less than the carrying value of the asset.
When Applied identifies an impairment, Applied reduces the carrying value of the group of assets to comparable market values, when available and appropriate, or to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash flow approach.
Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition.
Applied evaluates the useful lives of its intangible assets each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances require revising the remaining period of amortization.
In addition, Applied reviews intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable.
This agreement provides for borrowings in United States dollars at interest rates keyed to one of various benchmark rates selected by Applied for each advance, plus a margin based on Applied’s public debt rating and includes financial and other covenants.
Remaining credit facilities in the amount of approximately $73 million are with Japanese banks.
Applied’s ability to borrow under these facilities is subject to bank approval at the time of the borrowing request, and any advances will be at rates indexed to the banks’ prime reference rate denominated in Japanese yen.
No amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities as of both January 27, 2019 and October 28, 2018, and Applied has not utilized these credit facilities.
In fiscal 2011, Applied established a short-term commercial paper program of up to $1.5 billion.
The tax effects on net income of amounts reclassified from AOCI for the three months ended January 27, 2019 and January 28, 2018 were not material.
In February 2018, the Board of Directors approved a common stock repurchase program authorizing up to an aggregate of $6.0 billion in repurchases.
As of January 27, 2019, $3.6 billion remained available for future stock repurchases under this repurchase program.
Applied records treasury stock purchases under the cost method using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.
Upon reissuance of treasury stock, amounts in excess of the acquisition cost are credited to additional paid in capital.
If Applied reissues treasury stock at an amount below its acquisition cost and additional paid in capital associated with prior treasury stock transactions is insufficient to cover the difference between the acquisition cost and the reissue price, this difference is recorded against retained earnings.
In December 2018, Applied’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend, payable in March 2019, in the amount of $0.20 per share.
Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders.
Applied has a stockholder-approved equity plan, the Employee Stock Incentive Plan, which permits grants to employees of share-based awards, including stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units.
In addition, the plan provides for the automatic grant of restricted stock units to non-employee directors and permits the grant of share-based awards to non-employee directors and consultants.
Share-based awards made under the plan may be subject to accelerated vesting under certain circumstances in the event of a change in control of Applied.
Applied also has two Employee Stock Purchase Plans, one generally for United States employees and a second for employees of international subsidiaries (collectively, ESPP), which enable eligible employees to purchase Applied common stock.
The cost associated with share-based awards that are subject solely to time-based vesting requirements, less expected forfeitures, is recognized over the awards’ service period for the entire award on a straight-line basis.
The cost associated with performance-based equity awards, which include both performance and market goals, is recognized for each tranche over the service period.
The cost of equity awards related to performance goals is based on an assessment of the likelihood that the applicable performance goals will be achieved.
For the equity awards based on market goals, the cost is recognized based upon the assumption of 100% achievement of the goal.
As of January 27, 2019, Applied had $514 million in total unrecognized compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to grants of share-based awards and shares issued under Applied’s ESPP, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.9 years.
As of January 27, 2019, there were 67 million shares available for grants of share-based awards under the Employee Stock Incentive Plan, and an additional 17 million shares available for issuance under the ESPP.
As of January 27, 2019, 1.6 million additional performance-based awards could be earned based upon achievement of certain levels of specified performance goals.
The awards become eligible to vest only if performance goals are achieved and will vest only if the grantee remains employed by Applied through each applicable vesting date, subject to a qualifying retirement described below.
The number of shares that may vest in full after three years ranges from 0% to 200% of the target amount.
The awards provide for a partial payout based on actual performance at the conclusion of the three-year performance period in the event of a qualifying retirement based on age and years of service.
The fair value of the portion of the awards subject to targeted levels of adjusted operating margin is estimated on the date of grant.
If the performance goals are not met as of the end of the performance period, no compensation expense is recognized and any previously recognized compensation expense is reversed.
The expected cost is based on the portion of the awards that is probable to vest and is reflected over the service period and reduced for estimated forfeitures.
The fair value of the portion of the awards subject to the targeted levels of relative total shareholder return is estimated on the date of grant using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
Compensation expense is recognized based upon the assumption of 100% achievement of the TSR goal and will not be reversed even if the threshold level of TSR is never achieved, and is reflected over the service period and reduced for estimated forfeitures.
Under the ESPP, substantially all employees may purchase Applied common stock through payroll deductions at a price equal to 85 percent of the lower of the fair market value of Applied common stock at the beginning or end of each 6-month purchase period, subject to certain limits.
There was no purchase during both of the three months ended January 27, 2019 and January 28, 2018, respectively.
Compensation expense is calculated using the fair value of the employees’ purchase rights under the Black-Scholes model.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Applied completed the accounting for the Tax Act during the measurement period, which ended one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act, including the accounting for the remeasurement of deferred tax assets completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 and the accounting for the transition tax completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Proposed regulations are not authoritative and may change in the regulatory review process.
An accounting policy choice is allowed to either treat taxes due on future U.S. inclusions related to GILTI in taxable income as a current-period expense when incurred (the “period cost method”) or factor such amounts into the measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”).
Applied’s effective tax rates for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 13.2 percent and 86.1 percent, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was lower than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $1.0 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 for the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act.
This decrease was partially offset by tax expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 related to the resolution of tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions and by the excess tax benefit from share-based compensation being lower in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 than in the same period in the prior fiscal year.
 Applied products are generally sold with a warranty for a 12-month period following installation.
The provision for the estimated cost of warranty is recorded when revenue is recognized.
Parts and labor are covered under the terms of the warranty agreement.
The warranty provision is based on historical experience by product, configuration and geographic region.
In the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to third parties as required for certain transactions initiated by either Applied or its subsidiaries.
As of January 27, 2019, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee agreements was approximately $68 million.
Applied has not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee agreements beyond that required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed.
Applied does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these guarantee agreements.
Applied also has agreements with various banks to facilitate subsidiary banking operations worldwide, including overdraft arrangements, issuance of bank guarantees, and letters of credit.
From time to time, Applied receives notification from third parties, including customers and suppliers, seeking indemnification, litigation support, payment of money or other actions by Applied in connection with claims made against them.
Applied also is subject to various other legal proceedings and claims, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.
The Semiconductor Systems reportable segment includes semiconductor capital equipment for etch, rapid thermal processing, deposition, chemical mechanical planarization, metrology and inspection, wafer packaging, and ion implantation.
The Applied Global Services segment provides integrated solutions to optimize equipment and fab performance and productivity, including spares, upgrades, services, certain remanufactured earlier generation equipment and factory automation software for semiconductor, display and other products.
Each operating segment is separately managed and has separate financial results that are reviewed by Applied’s chief operating decision-maker.
Each reportable segment contains closely related products that are unique to the particular segment.
Segment operating income is determined based upon internal performance measures used by Applied’s chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker does not evaluate operating segments using total asset information.
Applied derives the segment results directly from its internal management reporting system.
The accounting policies Applied uses to derive reportable segment results are substantially the same as those used for external reporting purposes.
Management uses these results to evaluate the performance of, and to assign resources to, each of the reportable segments.
The following customers accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales for the three months ended January 27, 2019, and sales to these customers included products and services from multiple reportable segments.
The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 13 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs.
Markets for semiconductors and displays depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for electronic products.
Applied may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect Applied’s ability to capitalize on opportunities.
Applied maintains an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks.
The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.
Applied also maintains cash balances in various bank accounts globally in order to fund normal operations.
If any of these financial institutions becomes insolvent, it could limit Applied’s ability to access cash in the affected accounts, which could affect its ability to manage its operations.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
•fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen, euro, Taiwanese dollar, Israeli shekel, Chinese yuan or Singapore dollar;
•uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries, including for the manufacture and sale of semiconductors and displays in the developing economies of certain countries.
In addition, government authorities may impose conditions that require the use of local suppliers or partnerships with local companies, require the license or other transfer of intellectual property, or engage in other efforts to promote local businesses and local competitors, which could have a significant adverse impact on Applied’s business.
Many of these challenges are present in China and Korea, markets that represent significant long-term growth opportunities for Applied businesses.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates.
•the increasing focus on reducing energy usage and improving the environmental impact and sustainability associated with manufacturing operations.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the semiconductor industry.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the display industry.
The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes.
•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base.
Applied’s customer base is highly concentrated, and has become increasingly so as a result of continued consolidation.
A relatively limited number of manufacturers account for a substantial portion of Applied’s business.
•the inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs.
In addition, new legislation or additional regulations may affect or impair our ability to invest in certain countries or require us to obtain regulatory approvals to do so.
The risks to Applied’s strategic investment portfolio may be exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and macroeconomic conditions and, as a result, the value of the investment portfolio could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.
Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities.
Proposed regulations are not authoritative and may change in the regulatory review process.
Consistent with the international nature of its business, Applied conducts certain manufacturing, supply chain, and other operations in Asia, bringing these activities closer to customers and reducing operating costs.
To obtain the benefit of these tax incentives, Applied must meet requirements relating to various activities.
Applied’s ability to realize benefits from these incentives could be materially affected if, among other things, applicable requirements are not met or Applied incurs net losses in these jurisdictions.
Applied may have to engage in litigation to achieve the results reflected in the estimates, which may be time-consuming and expensive.
Applied has $5.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding.
Under the indenture governing the senior unsecured notes, it may be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, upon a change of control of Applied and a contemporaneous downgrade of the notes below investment grade.
Applied also has in place a $1.5 billion committed revolving credit agreement.
Applied may also enter into new financing arrangements.
If Applied fails to satisfy its debt obligations, or comply with financial and other debt covenants, it may be in default and any borrowings may become immediately due and payable, and such default may also constitute a default under other of Applied’s obligations.
There can be no assurance that Applied would have sufficient financial resources or be able to arrange financing to repay any borrowings at such time.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with expanding into new and related markets and industries.
•natural disasters or other events beyond Applied’s control (such as earthquakes, floods or storms, regional economic downturns, pandemics, social unrest, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war), particularly where it conducts manufacturing.
The ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital to Applied’s success.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights.
Policing any unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and costly and Applied cannot be certain that the measures it has implemented will prevent misuse.
Third parties may also assert claims against Applied and its products.
In addition, Applied may face claims based on the theft or unauthorized use or disclosure of third-party trade secrets and other confidential business information.
In the conduct of its business, Applied collects, uses, transmits and stores data on information technology systems, including systems owned and maintained by Applied or third party providers.
These data include confidential information and intellectual property belonging to Applied or its customers or other business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals.
All information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure.
Applied has experienced, and expects to continue to be subject to, cybersecurity threats and incidents ranging from employee error or misuse to individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to these information systems, to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, none of which have been material to the Company to date.
Compliance with, and changes to, laws and regulations concerning privacy and information security could result in significant expense, and any failure to comply could result in proceedings against Applied by regulatory authorities or other third parties.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings.
There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings, claims or investigations.
Applied periodically implements new or enhanced enterprise resource planning and related information systems in order to better manage its business operations, align its global organizations and enable future growth.
Implementation of new business processes and information systems requires the commitment of significant personnel, training and financial resources, and entails risks to Applied’s business operations.
Applied may incur impairment charges related to goodwill or long-lived assets.
Applied has a significant amount of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets related to acquisitions.
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
Applied may be required to record future charges to earnings during the period in which an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets is determined to exist.
Applied is subject to risks associated with environmental and safety regulations.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to the global regulatory environment.
Changing, inconsistent or conflicting laws, rules and regulations, and ambiguities in their interpretation and application create uncertainty and challenges, and compliance with laws, rules and regulations may be onerous and expensive, divert management time and attention from revenue-generating activities, and otherwise adversely impact Applied’s business operations.
