Item 2.
Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays.
Fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contains 52 weeks, and the first three months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contained 13 weeks.
Investment in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment and services continued to be the main driver of revenue during the first three months of fiscal 2019.
Semiconductor equipment customers made investments in new capacity and technology transitions, although overall spending decreased compared to the same period in the prior year.
Display equipment spending during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 reflected continued investment in new technology and manufacturing equipment for producing larger LCD TVs and in new equipment for mobile devices.
Applied also continued to see strong growth in demand for services and continued demand for spares from customers as compared to the same period in the prior year.
While Applied anticipates major technology trends to continue driving long-term growth in the semiconductor industry, the trends characterizing the second half of 2018 continued into early fiscal 2019, with lower spending by memory customers, and foundry and logic customers prioritizing spending on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied’s product portfolio.
Applied also expects lower spending for display manufacturing equipment in fiscal 2019, although long-term demand drivers remain in place.
Applied anticipates continued growth in semiconductor services spending in fiscal 2019.
The three months ended January 28, 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of recent U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.94.
For the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year, net sales decreased primarily due to decreased customer investments in semiconductor equipment.
The Semiconductor Systems segment’s relative share of total net sales continued to represent the largest contributor of net sales.
The changes in net sales in all regions in the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor equipment spending and customer and product mix.
The increase in net sales to customers in Japan, United States and Europe, for the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to increased investments in semiconductor equipment.
The decrease in net sales to customers in Korea for the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily reflected decrease in investments in semiconductor equipment.
Applied’s future operating results depend to a considerable extent on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the equipment and service products it provides.
Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product, which typically has a shorter development cycle, or a new product, which typically has a longer development cycle.
Most of Applied’s existing products resulted from internal development activities and innovations involving new technologies, materials and processes.
Marketing and selling expenses increased in the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in fiscal 2018 primarily due to additional headcount.
Marketing and selling expenses during the three months ended January 27, 2019 and January 28, 2018 each included $8 million of share-based compensation expense.
Interest expenses incurred were primarily associated with issued senior unsecured notes.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Applied completed the accounting for the Tax Act during the measurement period, which ended one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act, including the accounting for the remeasurement of deferred tax assets completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 and the accounting for the transition tax completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
On September 13, 2018, the U.S. government issued proposed regulations that, if finalized, would significantly affect how the Tax Act is interpreted related to a tax benefit of $46 million realized by Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Proposed regulations are not authoritative and may change in the regulatory review process.
An accounting policy choice is allowed to either treat taxes due on future U.S. inclusions related to GILTI in taxable income as a current-period expense when incurred (the “period cost method”) or factor such amounts into the measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”).
Excluding the tax expense of $1.0 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 for the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act, the effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was higher than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $58 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 related to changes in uncertain tax positions and due to the excess tax benefit from share-based compensation in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 being $43 million less than in the same period in the prior fiscal year.
The results for each reportable segment are discussed below.
The Semiconductor Systems segment is comprised primarily of capital equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips.
Semiconductor industry spending on capital equipment is driven by demand for advanced electronic products, including smartphones and other mobile devices, servers, personal computers, automotive devices, storage, and other products, and the nature and timing of technological advances in fabrication processes, and as a result is subject to variable industry conditions.
Development efforts are focused on solving customers’ key technical challenges in transistor, interconnect, patterning and packaging performance as devices scale to advanced technology nodes.
Semiconductor equipment customers made investments in new capacity and technology transitions, although overall spending decreased compared to the same period in the prior year.
Applied continues to see customers optimize existing capacity and re-prioritize their capital spending plans on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied's product portfolio.
The Applied Global Services segment provides integrated solutions to optimize equipment and fab performance and productivity, including spares, upgrades, services, certain remanufactured earlier generation equipment and factory automation software for semiconductor, display and solar products.
Customer demand for products and services is fulfilled through a global distribution system with trained service engineers located in close proximity to customer sites.
Demand for Applied Global Services’ service solutions are driven by Applied’s large and growing installed base of manufacturing systems, and customers’ needs to shorten ramp times, improve device performance and yield, and optimize factory output and operating costs.
Industry conditions that affect Applied Global Services’ sales of spares and services are primarily characterized by increases in semiconductor manufacturers’ wafer starts and continued strong utilization rates, growth of the installed base of equipment, growing service intensity of newer tools, and the company’s ability to sell more comprehensive service agreements.
Net sales for the three months ended January 27, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for services and legacy systems.
Operating income and operating margin for the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year increased due to higher net sales, partially offset by higher expenses related to an increase in headcount.
In the three months ended January 27, 2019, one customer accounted for more than 10 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
There was no region that accounted for at least 30 percent of total net sales for the Applied Global Services segment for any of the periods presented.
The Display and Adjacent Markets segment encompasses products for manufacturing liquid crystal and OLED displays, and other display technologies for TVs, monitors, laptops, personal computers, electronic tablets, smart phones, and other consumer-oriented devices, equipment upgrades and flexible coating systems.
The segment is focused on expanding its presence through technologically-differentiated equipment for manufacturing large-scale LCD TVs, OLEDs, low temperature polysilicon (LTPS), metal oxide, and touch panel sectors; and development of products that provide customers with improved performance and yields.
Display industry growth depends primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs as well as larger and higher resolution displays for next generation mobile devices.
The market environment for Applied's Display and Adjacent Markets segment in the first three months of fiscal 2019 was characterized by increased demand for manufacturing equipment for TVs and continued demand for mobile manufacturing equipment, compared to the same period in the prior year.
Net sales for the three months ended January 27, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher customer investments in TV display manufacturing equipment.
Operating income and operating margin for the three months ended January 27, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year, reflecting higher net sales, partially offset by higher expenses related to an increase in headcount.
In the three months ended January 27, 2019, three customers each accounted for at least 10 percent of this segment’s net sales, and together they accounted for approximately 79 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
Cash from operating activities for the three months ended January 27, 2019 was $834 million, which reflects net income adjusted for the effect of non-cash charges and changes in working capital components.
Non-cash charges included depreciation, amortization, share-based compensation and deferred income taxes.
Cash provided by operating activities decreased in the first three months of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower cash collections and higher payments to suppliers, offset by a lower change in inventory during the three months ended January 27, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year.
Applied has agreements with various financial institutions to sell accounts receivable and discount promissory notes from selected customers.
Applied, from time to time, also discounts letters of credit issued by customers through various financial institutions.
The discounting of letters of credit depends on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to discount the letters of credit and the cost of such arrangements.
Applied did not discount promissory notes or utilize programs to discount letters of credit issued by customers during the three months ended January 27, 2019 or January 28, 2018.
Days sales outstanding varies due to the timing of shipments and payment terms, and the increase was primarily due to better revenue linearity for the same period in the prior year.
Capital expenditures totaled $133 million and were partially offset by the proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, net of purchases of investments of $67 million during the three months ended January 27, 2019.
Applied’s investment portfolio consists principally of investment grade money market mutual funds, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, municipal bonds, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well as equity securities.
Applied regularly monitors the credit risk in its investment portfolio and takes appropriate measures, which may include the sale of certain securities, to manage such risks prudently in accordance with its investment policies.
In December 2018, Applied’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend payable in March 2019, in the amount of $0.20 per share.
Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders.
This agreement provides for borrowings in United States dollars at interest rates keyed to one of the two rates selected by Applied for each advance and includes financial and other covenants with which Applied was in compliance as of January 27, 2019.
Remaining credit facilities in the amount of approximately $73 million are with Japanese banks.
Applied’s ability to borrow under these facilities is subject to bank approval at the time of the borrowing request, and any advances will be at rates indexed to the banks’ prime reference rate denominated in Japanese yen.
No amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities as of both January 27, 2019 and October 28, 2018, and Applied has not utilized these credit facilities.
In fiscal 2011, Applied established a short-term commercial paper program of up to $1.5 billion.
As of January 27, 2019, Applied did not have any commercial paper outstanding but may issue commercial paper notes under this program from time to time in the future.
In the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to third parties as required for certain transactions initiated by either Applied or its subsidiaries.
As of January 27, 2019, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee agreements was approximately $68 million.
Applied has not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee agreements beyond that required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed.
Applied does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these guarantee agreements.
Applied also has agreements with various banks to facilitate subsidiary banking operations worldwide, including overdraft arrangements, issuance of bank guarantees, and letters of credit.
While Applied believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts as of January 27, 2019 is adequate, it will continue to closely monitor customer liquidity and economic conditions.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Applied realized a transition tax expense of $1.0 billion which is payable over eight years, with eight percent due in each of the first five years starting with fiscal 2018.
Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of factors such as those discussed above, Applied’s management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applied’s liquidity requirements for the next 12 months.
For further details regarding Applied’s operating, investing and financing activities, see the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows in this report.
Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in this report describe the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies.
Applied bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances.
These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as Applied’s operating environment changes.
These changes have historically been minor and have been included in the consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known.
Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized.
Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product, current and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs.
Applied’s warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period.
As Applied’s customer engineers and process support engineers are highly trained and deployed globally, labor availability is a significant factor in determining labor costs.
The quantity and availability of critical replacement parts is another significant factor in estimating warranty costs.
Unforeseen component failures or exceptional component performance can also result in changes to warranty costs.
Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.
This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified.
Inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis.
The carrying value of inventory is reduced for estimated obsolescence by the difference between its cost and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand.
Applied evaluates the inventory carrying value for potential excess and obsolete inventory exposures by analyzing historical and anticipated demand.
Applied reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also annually reviews goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives for impairment.
Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition.
If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value.
To test goodwill for impairment, Applied first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.
If it is concluded that this is the case, Applied then performs the two-step goodwill impairment test.
Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required.
If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill.
If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference.
Applied determines the fair value of each reporting unit based on a weighting of an income and a market approach.
Applied bases the fair value estimates on assumptions that it believes to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain.
The estimates used in the impairment testing are consistent with the discrete forecasts that Applied uses to manage its business, and considers any significant developments during the period.
Under the discounted cash flow method, cash flows beyond the discrete forecasts are estimated using a terminal growth rate, which considers the long-term earnings growth rate specific to the reporting units.
The estimated future cash flows are discounted to present value using each reporting unit’s weighted average cost of capital.
The weighted average cost of capital measures a reporting unit’s cost of debt and equity financing weighted by the percentage of debt and equity in a reporting unit’s target capital structure.
In addition, the weighted average cost of capital is derived using both known and estimated market metrics, and is adjusted to reflect both the timing and risks associated with the estimated cash flows.
The tax rate used in the discounted cash flow method is the median tax rate of comparable companies and reflects Applied’s current international structure, which is consistent with the market participant perspective.
Under the market approach, Applied uses the guideline company method which applies market multiples to forecasted revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
Applied uses market multiples that are consistent with comparable publicly-traded companies and considers each reporting unit’s size, growth and profitability relative to its comparable companies.
Management uses significant judgment when assessing goodwill for potential impairment, especially in emerging markets.
See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of goodwill impairment.
Deferred tax assets are also recognized for net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
Deferred tax assets are offset by a valuation allowance to the extent it is more likely than not that they are not expected to be realized.
The tax benefits recognized from such positions are estimated based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
Management uses non-GAAP adjusted financial measures to evaluate the Company’s operating and financial performance and for planning purposes, and as performance measures in its executive compensation program.
Applied believes these measures enhance an overall understanding of its performance and investors’ ability to review the Company’s business from the same perspective as the Company’s management and facilitate comparisons of this period’s results with prior periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that management does not believe are indicative of Applied's ongoing operating performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are provided in the financial tables presented below.
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, and may exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets.
2GAAP basis tax benefit related to share-based compensation is being recognized ratably over the fiscal year on a non-GAAP basis.
1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets.
Item 2.
The following table provides information as of January 27, 2019 with respect to the shares of common stock repurchased by Applied during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 pursuant to a publicly announced stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in February 2018, which authorized up to an aggregate of $6.0 billion in repurchases.
