Amounts as of July 29, 2018 are unaudited.
Amounts as of October 29, 2017 are derived from the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 (2017 Form 10-K).
Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contain 52 weeks, and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 39 weeks.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
On an ongoing basis, Applied evaluates its estimates, including those related to accounts receivable and sales allowances, fair values of financial instruments, inventories, intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment, fair values of share-based awards, and income taxes, among others.
Inventory Measurement.
In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance that requires inventory to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value instead of at lower of cost or market.
This guidance does not apply to inventory that is measured using last-in, first out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method but applies to all other inventory including those measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or the average cost method.
Applied adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 prospectively to the measurement of inventory after the effective date.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Share-Based Compensation.
In March 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including forfeitures, income tax, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
In the nine months ended July 29, 2018, Applied recognized an excess tax benefit of $51 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
The stranded income tax effects related to the Tax Act were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings in the consolidated statements of stockholders' equity as of July 29, 2018.
In August 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that modifies the recognition and presentation of hedge accounting to better align an entity’s risk management strategies and financial reporting for hedging relationships.
The authoritative guidance expands the application of hedge accounting for non-financial and financial risk components and eases certain hedge effectiveness assessment requirements.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In March 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which requires companies to present the service cost component of net benefit cost in the same line items in which they report compensation cost.
The adoption of this guidance is only expected to result in reclassification of other components of net benefit costs outside of income from operations and is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Goodwill Impairment.
In January 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies the process required to test goodwill for impairment.
The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that clarifies the definition of a business to help companies evaluate whether acquisition or disposal transactions should be accounted for as asset groups or as businesses.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a prospective basis, with early adoption permitted.
The impact of the adoption depends on the facts and circumstances of future acquisition or disposal transactions.
Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
In August 2016, a new authoritative guidance was issued which addresses classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments related to the statement of cash flows.
The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for lease accounting, which requires lessees to recognize lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for certain lease arrangements that are classified as operating leases under the previous standard, and to provide for enhanced disclosures.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and should be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition.
In May 2014, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that requires revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services, and requires certain additional disclosures.
Entities will have the option of using either a full retrospective or modified retrospective approach to adopting the guidance.
With this amendment, the guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, which is the Company’s planned adoption date.
In fiscal 2016, Applied established a project steering committee and cross-functional implementation team that has identified potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to Applied’s revenue contracts.
In addition, the implementation team has identified and is now implementing changes to business processes, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard.
•Revenue related to the sale of equipment and spares will generally continue to be recognized at a point in time upon the transfer of control.
Under this new guidance, the point of time at which revenue is recognized for certain of these products is expected to be earlier than under current revenue recognition guidance as there will be fewer constraints related to customer acceptance.
•Revenue related to the sale of services will generally continue to be recognized over time as the services are performed.
•Disclosures related to revenue recognition, including contract balances and revenue disaggregation, will be expanded.
Diluted earnings per share is determined using the weighted average number of common shares and potential common shares (representing the dilutive effect of stock options, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchase plan shares) outstanding during the period.
Applied’s net income has not been adjusted for any period presented for purposes of computing basic or diluted earnings per share due to the Company’s non-complex capital structure.
During the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018, gross realized gains on investments were $13 million and $14 million, respectively, and the gross realized losses on investments for these periods were not material.
During the three and nine months ended July 30, 2017, gross realized gains and losses on investments were not material.
Unrealized gains and temporary losses on investments classified as available-for-sale are included within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of any related tax effect.
Applied’s financial assets are measured and recorded at fair value, except for equity investments in privately-held companies.
These equity investments are generally accounted for under the cost method of accounting and are periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment when events or circumstances indicate that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred.
Applied’s nonfinancial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
In determining the fair value of investments, Applied uses pricing information from pricing services that value securities based on quoted market prices and models that utilize observable market inputs.
In the event a fair value estimate is unavailable from a pricing service, Applied generally obtains non-binding price quotes from brokers.
Applied then reviews the information provided by the pricing services or brokers to determine the fair value of its short-term and long-term investments.
In addition, to validate pricing information obtained from pricing services, Applied periodically performs supplemental analysis on a sample of securities.
Applied reviews any significant unanticipated differences identified through this analysis to determine the appropriate fair value.
Investments with remaining effective maturities of 12 months or less from the balance sheet date are classified as short-term investments.
Investments with remaining effective maturities of more than 12 months from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term investments.
As of July 29, 2018, substantially all of Applied’s available-for-sale, short-term and long-term investments were recognized at fair value that was determined based upon observable inputs.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 or July 30, 2017.
Applied did not have any financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements as of July 29, 2018 or October 29, 2017.
Equity investments in privately-held companies are generally accounted for under the cost method of accounting and are periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred.
As of July 29, 2018, equity investments in privately-held companies totaled $82 million, of which $65 million of these investments were accounted for under the cost method of accounting and $17 million of investments had been measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements due to an other-than-temporary decline in value.
As of October 29, 2017, equity investments in privately-held companies totaled $74 million, of which $65 million of these investments were accounted for under the cost method of accounting and $9 million of investments had been measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements due to an other-than-temporary decline in value.
Impairment charges on equity investments in privately-held companies during the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 and July 30, 2017 were not material.
The carrying amounts of Applied’s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, notes payable - short term, and accounts payable and accrued expenses, approximate fair value due to their short maturities.
As of July 29, 2018 the aggregate principal amount of long-term debt was $5.4 billion and the estimated fair value was $5.6 billion.
As of October 29, 2017, the aggregate principal amount of long-term debt was $5.4 billion and the estimated fair value was $5.8 billion.
The estimated fair value of long-term debt is determined by Level 2 inputs and is based primarily on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues.
See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for further detail of existing debt.
Applied uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward exchange contracts and currency option contracts, to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions expected to occur typically within the next 24 months.
The purpose of Applied’s foreign currency management is to mitigate the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated revenues, costs and eventual cash flows.
The terms of currency instruments used for hedging purposes are generally consistent with the timing of the transactions being hedged.
During fiscal 2017, Applied entered into and settled interest rate lock agreements, with a total notional amount of $700 million to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
These instruments were designated as cash flow hedges at inception and settled in conjunction with the issuance of debt in March 2017.
The $14 million loss from the settlement of the interest rate lock agreement, which was included in accumulated other comprehensive loss (AOCI) in stockholders’ equity, is being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior unsecured 10-year notes issued in March 2017.
Applied does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Derivative instruments and hedging activities, including foreign currency exchange and interest rate contracts, are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge treatment, as well as the ineffective portion of any hedges, are recognized currently in earnings.
All of Applied’s derivative financial instruments are recorded at their fair value in other current assets or in accounts payable and accrued expenses.
Hedges related to anticipated transactions are designated and documented at the inception of the hedge as cash flow hedges and foreign exchange derivatives are typically entered into once per month.
Cash flow hedges are evaluated for effectiveness quarterly.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on these hedges is reported as a component of AOCI in stockholders’ equity and is reclassified into earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings.
The majority of the after-tax net income or loss related to foreign exchange derivative instruments included in AOCI as of July 29, 2018 is expected to be reclassified into earnings within 12 months.
Changes in the fair value of currency forward exchange and option contracts due to changes in time value are excluded from the assessment of effectiveness.
Both ineffective hedge amounts and hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings.
If the transaction being hedged is no longer probable to occur, or if a portion of any derivative is deemed to be ineffective, Applied promptly recognizes the gain or loss on the associated financial instrument in earnings.
The amount recognized due to discontinuance of cash flow hedges that were probable not to occur by the end of the originally specified time period was not significant for the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 and July 30, 2017.
Additionally, forward exchange contracts are generally used to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities.
These derivatives are typically entered into once per month and are not designated for hedge accounting treatment.
Accordingly, changes in the fair value of these hedges are recorded in earnings to offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged.
The fair values of foreign exchange derivative instruments as of July 29, 2018 and October 29, 2017 were not material.
If Applied’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade, it would be in violation of credit risk contingent provisions of the derivative instruments discussed above, and certain counterparties to the derivative instruments could request immediate payment on derivative instruments in net liability positions.
The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk related contingent features that were in a net liability position was immaterial as of July 29, 2018.
Applied has agreements with various financial institutions to sell accounts receivable and discount promissory notes from selected customers.
Applied, from time to time, also discounts letters of credit issued by customers through various financial institutions.
The discounting of letters of credit depends on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to discount the letters of credit and the cost of such arrangements.
Applied sold $211 million and $360 million of accounts receivable during the three and nine months ended July 30, 2017, respectively.
Applied did not discount letters of credit issued by customers or discount promissory notes during the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 and July 30, 2017. Financing charges on the sale of receivables and discounting of letters of credit are included in interest expense in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations and were not material for all periods presented.
Applied sells its products principally to manufacturers within the semiconductor and display industries.
While Applied believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate and represents its best estimate as of July 29, 2018, it continues to closely monitor customer liquidity and industry and economic conditions, which may result in changes to Applied’s estimates.
Included in finished goods inventory are $129 million as of July 29, 2018, and $331 million as of October 29, 2017, of newly-introduced systems at customer locations where the sales transaction did not meet Applied’s revenue recognition criteria as set forth in Note 1.
Finished goods inventory includes $342 million and $281 million of evaluation inventory as of July 29, 2018 and October 29, 2017, respectively.
Applied typically receives deposits on future deliverables from customers in the Display and Adjacent Markets segment and, in certain instances, may also receive deposits from customers in the Applied Global Services segment.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2017, Applied completed two acquisitions to complement Applied's existing product offerings and to provide opportunities for future growth within Applied's Display and Adjacent Markets segment.
Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions were not presented because they were not material to Applied's consolidated results of operations.
The acquired businesses were included in the results for the Display and Adjacent Markets segment.
Applied’s methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established and generally accepted valuation techniques.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the purchase price over the sum of the amounts assigned to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired less liabilities assumed.
Applied assigns assets acquired (including goodwill) and liabilities assumed to one or more reporting units as of the date of acquisition.
Typically, acquisitions relate to a single reporting unit and thus do not require the allocation of goodwill to multiple reporting units.
If the products obtained in an acquisition are assigned to multiple reporting units, the goodwill is distributed to the respective reporting units as part of the purchase price allocation process.
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets requires significant judgment, especially in emerging markets.
To test goodwill for impairment, Applied first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.
If it is concluded that this is the case, Applied then performs the two-step goodwill impairment test.
Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required.
Applied determines the fair value of each of its reporting units based on a weighting of income and market approaches.
If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill.
If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference.
As of July 29, 2018, Applied’s reporting units include Semiconductor Product Group and Imaging and Process Control Group, which combine to form the Semiconductor Systems reporting segment, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets.
The evaluation of goodwill and intangible assets for impairment requires the exercise of significant judgment.
Applied amortizes purchased intangible assets with finite lives using the straight-line method over the estimated economic lives of the assets, ranging from 1 to 15 years.
Applied evaluates long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable.
Applied assesses the fair value of the assets based on the amount of the undiscounted future cash flow that the assets are expected to generate and recognizes an impairment loss when estimated undiscounted future cash flow expected to result from the use of the asset, plus net proceeds expected from disposition of the asset, if any, are less than the carrying value of the asset.
When Applied identifies an impairment, Applied reduces the carrying value of the group of assets to comparable market values, when available and appropriate, or to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash flow approach.
Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition.
Applied evaluates the useful lives of its intangible assets each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances require revising the remaining period of amortization.
In addition, Applied reviews intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable.
This agreement provides for borrowings in United States dollars at interest rates keyed to one of various benchmark rates selected by Applied for each advance, plus a margin based on Applied’s public debt rating and includes financial and other covenants.
Remaining credit facilities in the amount of approximately $72 million are with Japanese banks.
Applied’s ability to borrow under these facilities is subject to bank approval at the time of the borrowing request, and any advances will be at rates indexed to the banks’ prime reference rate denominated in Japanese yen.
No amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities as of both July 29, 2018 and October 29, 2017, and Applied has not utilized these credit facilities.
In fiscal 2011, Applied established a short-term commercial paper program of up to $1.5 billion.
As of July 29, 2018, Applied did not have any commercial paper outstanding.
In March 2017, Applied issued senior unsecured notes in the aggregate principal amount of $2.2 billion and used a portion of the net proceeds to redeem the outstanding $200 million in principal amount of its 7.125% senior notes due in October 2017 at a redemption price of $205 million in May 2017.
After adjusting for the carrying value of debt issuance costs and discounts, Applied recorded a $5 million loss on the prepayment of the $200 million debt, which is included in interest and other income, net in the Consolidated Condensed Statement of Operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
The tax effects on net income of amounts reclassified from AOCI for the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 and July 30, 2017 were not material.
In September 2017, the Board of Directors approved a common stock repurchase program authorizing up to $3.0 billion in repurchases.
As of July 29, 2018, $5.1 billion remained available for future stock repurchases under this repurchase program.
Upon reissuance of treasury stock, amounts in excess of the acquisition cost are credited to additional paid in capital.
If Applied reissues treasury stock at an amount below its acquisition cost and additional paid in capital associated with prior treasury stock transactions is insufficient to cover the difference between the acquisition cost and the reissue price, this difference is recorded against retained earnings.
In June 2018, February 2018 and December 2017, Applied’s Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.20, $0.20 and $0.10 per share, respectively.
Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders.
Applied has a stockholder-approved equity plan, the Employee Stock Incentive Plan, which permits grants to employees of share-based awards, including stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units.
In addition, the plan provides for the automatic grant of restricted stock units to non-employee directors and permits the grant of share-based awards to non-employee directors and consultants.
Share-based awards made under the plan may be subject to accelerated vesting under certain circumstances in the event of a change in control of Applied.
Applied also has two Employee Stock Purchase Plans, one generally for United States employees and a second for employees of international subsidiaries (collectively, ESPP), which enable eligible employees to purchase Applied common stock.
The cost associated with performance-based equity awards is recognized for each tranche over the service period, based on an assessment of the likelihood that the applicable performance goals will be achieved.
As of July 29, 2018, Applied had $399 million in total unrecognized compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to grants of share-based awards and shares issued under Applied’s ESPP, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years.
As of July 29, 2018, there were 81 million shares available for grants of share-based awards under the Employee Stock Incentive Plan, and an additional 19 million shares available for issuance under the ESPP.
As of July 29, 2018, 1 million additional performance-based awards could be earned based upon achievement of certain levels of specified performance goals.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, certain executive officers were granted awards that are subject to the achievement of specified performance goals.
These awards become eligible to vest only if performance goals are achieved and will vest only if the grantee remains employed by Applied through each applicable vesting date.
Certain awards require the achievement of positive adjusted operating profit and vest ratably over three years.
Other awards require the achievement of targeted levels of adjusted operating margin and wafer fabrication equipment market share, and the number of shares that may vest in full after three years ranges from 0% to 200% of the target amount.
If the performance goals are not met as of the end of the performance period, no compensation expense is recognized and any previously recognized compensation expense is reversed.
The expected cost is based on the awards that are probable to vest and is reflected over the service period and reduced for estimated forfeitures.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Pursuant to this guidance, provisional adjustments were recorded when reasonable estimates could be determined.
No adjustments were recorded when reasonable estimates could not be determined.
These provisional estimates will be revised as information becomes available and as guidance is issued by the Internal Revenue Service.
An accounting policy choice is allowed to either treat taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI as a current-period expense when incurred (the “period cost method”) or factor such amounts into the measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”).
An accounting policy choice has not yet been made.
Applied’s effective tax rates for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 were 5.3 percent and 5.4 percent, respectively.
The third quarter of the prior fiscal year included tax benefits from the recognition of previously unrecognized foreign tax credits.
Applied’s effective tax rates for the first nine months fiscal 2018 and 2017 were 34.1 percent and 7.7 percent, respectively.
The first nine months of fiscal 2018 included tax expense of $1.1 billion for the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets partially offset by tax benefits from the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate, changes in the geographical composition of income, adoption of authoritative guidance for share-based compensation, and the resolution of tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions.
The first nine months of the prior fiscal year included tax benefits from the recognition of previously unrecognized foreign tax credits.
 Applied products are generally sold with a warranty for a 12-month period following installation.
The provision for the estimated cost of warranty is recorded when revenue is recognized.
Parts and labor are covered under the terms of the warranty agreement.
The warranty provision is based on historical experience by product, configuration and geographic region.
In the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to third parties as required for certain transactions initiated by either Applied or its subsidiaries.
As of July 29, 2018, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee agreements was approximately $62 million.
Applied has not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee agreements beyond that required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed.
Applied does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these guarantee agreements.
Applied also has agreements with various banks to facilitate subsidiary banking operations worldwide, including overdraft arrangements, issuance of bank guarantees, and letters of credit.
As of July 29, 2018, Applied has provided parent guarantees to banks for approximately $150 million to cover these arrangements.
From time to time, Applied receives notification from third parties, including customers and suppliers, seeking indemnification, litigation support, payment of money or other actions by Applied in connection with claims made against them.
Applied also is subject to various other legal proceedings and claims, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.
The Semiconductor Systems reportable segment includes semiconductor capital equipment for etch, rapid thermal processing, deposition, chemical mechanical planarization, metrology and inspection, wafer packaging, and ion implantation.
The Applied Global Services segment provides integrated solutions to optimize equipment and fab performance and productivity, including spares, upgrades, services, certain remanufactured earlier generation equipment and factory automation software for semiconductor, display and other products.
Each operating segment is separately managed and has separate financial results that are reviewed by Applied’s chief operating decision-maker.
Each reportable segment contains closely related products that are unique to the particular segment.
Segment operating income is determined based upon internal performance measures used by Applied’s chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker does not evaluate operating segments using total asset information.
Applied derives the segment results directly from its internal management reporting system.
The accounting policies Applied uses to derive reportable segment results are substantially the same as those used for external reporting purposes.
Management measures the performance of each reportable segment based upon several metrics including net sales and operating income.
Management uses these results to evaluate the performance of, and to assign resources to, each of the reportable segments.
The following customers accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales for the nine months ended July 29, 2018, and sales to these customers included products and services from multiple reportable segments.
The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 13 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs.
Markets for semiconductors and displays depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for electronic products.
These conditions may also lead to consolidation or strategic alliances among other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect Applied’s ability to compete effectively.
Applied may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect Applied’s ability to capitalize on opportunities.
Applied maintains an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks.
The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.
Applied also maintains cash balances in various bank accounts globally in order to fund normal operations.
If any of these financial institutions becomes insolvent, it could limit Applied’s ability to access cash in the affected accounts, which could affect its ability to manage its operations.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
•fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen, euro, Taiwanese dollar, Israeli shekel, Chinese yuan or Singapore dollar;
•uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries, including for the manufacture and sale of semiconductors and displays in the developing economies of certain countries.
In addition, government authorities may impose conditions that require the use of local suppliers or partnerships with local companies, require the license or other transfer of intellectual property, or engage in other efforts to promote local businesses and local competitors, which could have a significant adverse impact on Applied’s business.
Many of these challenges are present in China and Korea, markets that represent significant long-term growth opportunities for Applied businesses.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates.
•the increasing focus on reducing energy usage and improving the environmental impact and sustainability associated with manufacturing operations.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the semiconductor industry.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the display industry.
The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes.
•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base.
Applied’s customer base is highly concentrated, and has become increasingly concentrated as a result of continued consolidation.
A relatively limited number of manufacturers account for a substantial portion of Applied’s business.
•the inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs.
The risks to Applied’s strategic investment portfolio may be exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and macroeconomic conditions and, as a result, the value of the investment portfolio could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.
Applied has $5.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding.
While no amounts were outstanding under this credit agreement as of July 29, 2018, Applied may borrow amounts in the future under the agreement.
Applied may also enter into new financing arrangements.
Applied’s ability to satisfy its debt obligations is dependent upon the results of its business operations and subject to other risks discussed in this section.
If Applied fails to satisfy its debt obligations, or comply with financial and other debt covenants, it may be in default and any borrowings may become immediately due and payable, and such default may also constitute a default under other of Applied’s obligations.
There can be no assurance that Applied would have sufficient financial resources or be able to arrange financing to repay any borrowings at such time.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with expanding into new and related markets and industries.
•natural disasters or other events beyond Applied’s control (such as earthquakes, floods or storms, regional economic downturns, pandemics, social unrest, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war), particularly where it conducts manufacturing.
The ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital to Applied’s success.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights.
Policing any unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and costly and Applied cannot be certain that the measures it has implemented will prevent misuse.
Third parties may also assert claims against Applied and its products.
In addition, Applied may face claims based on the theft or unauthorized use or disclosure of third-party trade secrets and other confidential business information.
In the conduct of its business, Applied collects, uses, transmits and stores data on information technology systems, including systems owned and maintained by Applied or third party providers.
These data include confidential information and intellectual property belonging to Applied or its customers or other business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals.
All information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure.
Applied has experienced, and expects to continue to be subject to, cybersecurity threats and incidents ranging from employee error or misuse to individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to these information systems, to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, none of which have been material to the Company to date.
Compliance with, and changes to, laws and regulations concerning privacy and information security could result in significant expense, and any failure to comply could result in proceedings against Applied by regulatory authorities or other third parties.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings.
Applied also on occasion receives notification from customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or other obligations related to claims made against such customers by third parties.
There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings, claims or investigations.
Applied periodically implements new or enhanced enterprise resource planning and related information systems in order to better manage its business operations, align its global organizations and enable future growth.
Implementation of new business processes and information systems requires the commitment of significant personnel, training and financial resources, and entails risks to Applied’s business operations.
Applied may incur impairment charges to goodwill or long-lived assets.
Applied has a significant amount of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets related to acquisitions.
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
Applied may be required to record future charges to earnings during the period in which an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets is determined to exist.
Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Pursuant to SAB 118, provisional adjustments were recorded when reasonable estimates could be determined.
No adjustments were recorded when reasonable estimates could not be determined.
Consistent with the international nature of its business, Applied conducts certain manufacturing, supply chain, and other operations in Asia, bringing these activities closer to customers and reducing operating costs.
To obtain the benefit of these tax incentives, Applied must meet requirements relating to various activities.
Applied’s ability to realize benefits from these incentives could be materially affected if, among other things, applicable requirements are not met or Applied incurs net losses in these jurisdictions.
Applied may have to engage in litigation to achieve the results reflected in the estimates, which may be time-consuming and expensive.
Applied is subject to risks associated with environmental and safety regulations.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to the global regulatory environment.
Changing, inconsistent or conflicting laws, rules and regulations, and ambiguities in their interpretation and application create uncertainty and challenges, and compliance with laws, rules and regulations may be onerous and expensive, divert management time and attention from revenue-generating activities, and otherwise adversely impact Applied’s business operations.
