The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 13 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
The risk factors set forth below include any material changes to, and supersede the description of, the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of Applied’s 2017 Form 10-K.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
The amount and mix of capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations.
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy.
Uncertain global economic and business conditions, along with uncertainties and volatility in the financial markets, national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions, pose challenges to the industries in which Applied operates.
Markets for semiconductors and displays depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for electronic products.
Economic and industry uncertainty may similarly affect suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and negatively affect Applied’s ability to manage operations and deliver its products.
These conditions may also lead to consolidation or strategic alliances among other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect Applied’s ability to compete effectively.
Applied may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect Applied’s ability to capitalize on opportunities.
Even during periods of economic uncertainty or lower revenues, Applied must continue to invest in research and development and maintain a global business infrastructure to compete effectively and support its customers, which can have a negative impact on its operating margins and earnings.
Applied maintains an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks.
The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.
Applied also maintains cash balances in various bank accounts globally in order to fund normal operations.
If any of these financial institutions becomes insolvent, it could limit Applied’s ability to access cash in the affected accounts, which could affect its ability to manage its operations.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
•fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen, euro, Taiwanese dollar, Israeli shekel, Chinese yuan or Singapore dollar;
•uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries, including for the manufacture and sale of semiconductors and displays in the developing economies of certain countries.
In addition, government authorities may impose conditions that require the use of local suppliers or partnerships with local companies, require the license or other transfer of intellectual property, or engage in other efforts to promote local businesses and local competitors, which could have a significant adverse impact on Applied’s business.
Many of these challenges are present in China and Korea, markets that represent significant long-term growth opportunities for Applied businesses.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates.
•the increasing focus on reducing energy usage and improving the environmental impact and sustainability associated with manufacturing operations.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the semiconductor industry.
•the increasing fragmentation of semiconductor markets, leading certain markets to become too small to support the cost of a new fabrication plant, while others require less technologically advanced products.
If Applied does not accurately forecast, and allocate appropriate resources and investment towards addressing, key technology changes and inflections, successfully develop and commercialize products to meet demand for new technologies, and effectively address industry trends, its business and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the display industry.
•the variability in demand for display manufacturing equipment, concentration of display manufacturer customers and their ability to successfully commercialize new products and technologies, and uncertainty with respect to future display technology end-use applications and growth drivers.
The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes.
•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base.
Applied’s customer base is highly concentrated, and has become increasingly concentrated as a result of continued consolidation.
A relatively limited number of manufacturers account for a substantial portion of Applied’s business.
As a result, the actions of even a single customer can expose Applied’s business and results of operations to greater volatility.
Applied’s products are configured to customer specifications, and changing, rescheduling or canceling orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs.
The concentration of Applied’s customer base increases its risks related to the financial condition of its customers, and the deterioration in financial condition of a single customer or the failure of a single customer to perform its obligations could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s results of operations and cash flow.
To the extent its customers experience liquidity constraints, Applied may incur additional bad debt expense, which may have a significant impact on its results of operations.
•the inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs.
The success of these investments depends on various factors over which Applied may have limited or no control and, particularly with respect to joint ventures, requires ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic partners.
The risks to Applied’s strategic investment portfolio may be exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and macroeconomic conditions and, as a result, the value of the investment portfolio could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.
Applied’s indebtedness and debt covenants could adversely affect its financial condition and business.
Applied has $5.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding.
Applied may also enter into new financing arrangements.
Applied’s ability to satisfy its debt obligations is dependent upon the results of its business operations and subject to other risks discussed in this section.
Significant changes in Applied’s credit rating or changes in the interest rate environment could have a material adverse consequence on Applied’s access to and cost of capital for future financings, and financial condition.
If Applied fails to satisfy its debt obligations, or comply with financial and other debt covenants, it may be in default and any borrowings may become immediately due and payable, and such default may also constitute a default under other of Applied’s obligations.
There can be no assurance that Applied would have sufficient financial resources or be able to arrange financing to repay any borrowings at such time.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with expanding into new and related markets and industries.
•natural disasters or other events beyond Applied’s control (such as earthquakes, floods or storms, regional economic downturns, pandemics, social unrest, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war), particularly where it conducts manufacturing.
The ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital to Applied’s success.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights.
Infringement of Applied’s rights by a third party, such as the unauthorized manufacture or sale of equipment or spare parts, could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied.
Policing any unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and costly and Applied cannot be certain that the measures it has implemented will prevent misuse.
Third parties may also assert claims against Applied and its products.
In addition, Applied may face claims based on the theft or unauthorized use or disclosure of third-party trade secrets and other confidential business information.
Applied is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity threats and incidents.
In the conduct of its business, Applied collects, uses, transmits and stores data on information technology systems, including systems owned and maintained by Applied or third party providers.
These data include confidential information and intellectual property belonging to Applied or its customers or other business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals.
All information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure.
Applied has experienced, and expects to continue to be subject to, cybersecurity threats and incidents ranging from employee error or misuse to individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to these information systems, to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, none of which have been material to the Company to date.
However, depending on their nature and scope, cybersecurity incidents could result in business disruption; the misappropriation of intellectual property, and corruption or loss of confidential information and critical data (Applied’s and that of third parties); reputational damage; litigation with third parties; diminution in the value of Applied’s investment in research, development and engineering; data privacy issues; and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs.
Compliance with, and changes to, laws and regulations concerning privacy and information security could result in significant expense, and any failure to comply could result in proceedings against Applied by regulatory authorities or other third parties.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings.
Applied also on occasion receives notification from customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or other obligations related to claims made against such customers by third parties.
There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings, claims or investigations.
The failure to successfully implement enterprise resource planning and other information systems changes could adversely impact Applied’s business and results of operations.
Applied periodically implements new or enhanced enterprise resource planning and related information systems in order to better manage its business operations, align its global organizations and enable future growth.
Implementation of new business processes and information systems requires the commitment of significant personnel, training and financial resources, and entails risks to Applied’s business operations.
Applied may incur impairment charges to goodwill or long-lived assets.
Applied has a significant amount of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets related to acquisitions.
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include adverse industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, declines in the market price of Applied common stock, changes in Applied’s strategies or product portfolio, and restructuring activities.
Applied’s valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and projections of future operating performance.
Applied may be required to record future charges to earnings during the period in which an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets is determined to exist.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with operating in jurisdictions with complex and changing tax laws.
Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted tax legislation referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (SAB 118), which provides guidance on accounting for income tax effects of the Tax Act.
Pursuant to SAB 118, provisional adjustments were recorded when reasonable estimates could be determined.
No adjustments were recorded when reasonable estimates could not be determined.
These provisional estimates will be revised as information becomes available and guidance is issued by the Internal Revenue Service, and changes in Applied’s provision for income taxes and effective tax rates could have a material impact on Applied’s results of operations and financial condition.
Consistent with the international nature of its business, Applied conducts certain manufacturing, supply chain, and other operations in Asia, bringing these activities closer to customers and reducing operating costs.
To obtain the benefit of these tax incentives, Applied must meet requirements relating to various activities.
Applied’s ability to realize benefits from these incentives could be materially affected if, among other things, applicable requirements are not met or Applied incurs net losses in these jurisdictions.
Applied regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations and amendments to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes, which requires estimates and judgments.
Applied may have to engage in litigation to achieve the results reflected in the estimates, which may be time-consuming and expensive.
Applied is subject to risks associated with environmental and safety regulations.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to the global regulatory environment.
Changing, inconsistent or conflicting laws, rules and regulations, and ambiguities in their interpretation and application create uncertainty and challenges, and compliance with laws, rules and regulations may be onerous and expensive, divert management time and attention from revenue-generating activities, and otherwise adversely impact Applied’s business operations.
Violations of law, rules and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions, restrictions on Applied’s business, and damage to its reputation, and could have an adverse impact on its business operations, financial condition and results of operations.
