The following management’s discussion and analysis is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements and notes to assist in understanding Applied’s results of operations and financial condition.
Financial information as of April 29, 2018 should be read in conjunction with the financial statements for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 contained in the Company’s Form 10-K filed December 15, 2017.
Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contains 52 weeks, and the first six months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 26 weeks.
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, healthy investment in semiconductor manufacturing equipment and services continued to be a strong driver of revenue.
Overall semiconductor systems revenue increased as logic and NAND demand remained strong, and dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) demand increased, reflecting increasing memory requirements in smartphones and servers.
Display equipment spending reflected continued investment in new technology and manufacturing equipment.
Customers invested in a new generation of equipment for producing larger LCD TVs and continued to invest in new equipment for mobile devices.
The second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of recent U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.07 and $1.02, respectively.
For the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales increased primarily due to increased customer investments in all segments, with majority of the increases resulting from investments in semiconductor equipment.
The Semiconductor Systems segment’s relative share of total net sales continued to represent the largest contributor of net sales.
The changes in net sales in all regions in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor equipment customer mix and increased spending in display manufacturing equipment and semiconductor spares and services.
The increase in net sales from customers in Korea, Japan, and Southeast Asia for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, primarily reflected increased investments in semiconductor equipment and changes in semiconductor equipment customer mix.
The increase in net sales from customers in China for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected increased investments in semiconductor equipment and display manufacturing equipment.
The decrease in net sales from customers in Taiwan for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected decreased investments in semiconductor equipment, partially offset by increased investments in display manufacturing equipment.
Gross margin in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the increase in net sales and favorable product mix and materials cost savings.
Gross margin during the three months ended April 29, 2018 and April 30, 2017 included $21 million and $16 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
Applied’s future operating results depend to a considerable extent on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the equipment and service products it provides.
Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product, which typically has a shorter development cycle, or a new product, which typically has a longer development cycle.
Most of Applied’s existing products resulted from internal development activities and innovations involving new technologies, materials and processes.
Marketing and selling expenses increased in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in fiscal 2017 primarily due to additional headcount.
Marketing and selling expenses during the three months ended April 29, 2018 and April 30, 2017 included $8 million and $7 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
Marketing and selling expenses during the six months ended April 29, 2018 and April 30, 2017 included $16 million and $14 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
Interest expenses incurred were primarily associated with the senior unsecured notes issued in June 2011, September 2015 and March 2017.
Interest expense in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the same periods in fiscal 2017 primarily due to the issuance of senior unsecured notes in March 2017.
Interest and other income, net in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the same periods in fiscal 2017 primarily driven by higher interest income from investments.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Pursuant to SAB 118, provisional adjustments were recorded when reasonable estimates could be determined.
These provisional estimates will be revised as information becomes available and as guidance is issued by the Internal Revenue Service.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter was higher compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to $71 million of income tax expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 related to adjustments in the transition tax and the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets under the Tax Act.
The effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal 2018 was higher than in the same period in the prior year primarily due to $1.1 billion of income tax expense for the transition tax and the decrease in U.S. deferred tax assets under the Tax Act.
This was partially offset by the recognition of a tax benefit of $53 million related to the adoption of authoritative guidance for share-based compensation, the effect of the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate, and changes in the geographical composition of income.
The results for each reportable segment are discussed below.
The Semiconductor Systems segment is comprised primarily of capital equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips.
Semiconductor industry spending on capital equipment is driven by demand for advanced electronic products, including smartphones and other mobile devices, servers, personal computers, automotive devices, storage, and other products, and the nature and timing of technological advances in fabrication processes, and as a result is subject to variable industry conditions.
Development efforts are focused on solving customers’ key technical challenges in transistor, interconnect, patterning and packaging performance as devices scale to advanced technology nodes.
The market for Semiconductor Systems products and technologies has been characterized by continued investment by semiconductor manufacturers.
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, healthy investment in semiconductor manufacturing equipment continued to be a strong driver of revenue.
Overall semiconductor systems revenue increased as logic and NAND demand remained strong and DRAM demand increased, reflecting increasing memory requirements in smartphones and servers.
The Applied Global Services segment provides integrated solutions to optimize equipment and fab performance and productivity, including spares, upgrades, services, certain remanufactured earlier generation equipment and factory automation software for semiconductor, display and solar products.
Customer demand for products and services is fulfilled through a global distribution system with trained service engineers located in close proximity to customer sites.
Demand for Applied Global Services’ service solutions are driven by Applied’s large and growing installed base of manufacturing systems, and customers’ needs to shorten ramp times, improve device performance and yield, and optimize factory output and operating costs.
Industry conditions that affect Applied Global Services’ sales of spares and services are primarily characterized by increases in semiconductor manufacturers’ wafer starts and continued strong utilization rates, growth of the installed base of equipment, growing service intensity of newer tools, and the company’s ability to sell more comprehensive service agreements.
Net sales for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for spares and services.
Operating income and operating margin for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year increased due to higher net sales.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, two customers each accounted for more than 10 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
There was no region that accounted for at least 30 percent of total net sales for the Applied Global Services segment for any of the periods presented.
The Display and Adjacent Markets segment encompasses products for manufacturing liquid crystal and OLED displays, and other display technologies for TVs, personal computers, electronic tablets, smart phones, and other consumer-oriented devices, equipment upgrades and flexible coating systems.
The segment is focused on expanding its presence through technologically-differentiated equipment for manufacturing large-scale LCD TVs, OLEDs, low temperature polysilicon (LTPS), metal oxide, and touch panel sectors; and development of products that provide customers with improved performance and yields.
Display industry growth depends primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs as well as larger and higher resolution displays for next generation mobile devices.
The market environment for Applied's Display and Adjacent Markets segment in the first half of fiscal 2018 was characterized by healthy demand for manufacturing equipment for mobile devices and TV manufacturing equipment, although these markets are susceptible to cyclical conditions.
Cash from operating activities for the six months ended April 29, 2018 was $2.1 billion, which reflects net income adjusted for the effect of non-cash charges and changes in working capital components.
Non-cash charges included depreciation, amortization, share-based compensation and deferred income taxes.
Cash provided by operating activities increased from the first half of fiscal 2017 to the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in income taxes payable, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable and lower net income.
Applied has agreements with various financial institutions to sell accounts receivable and discount promissory notes from selected customers.
Applied, from time to time, also discounts letters of credit issued by customers through various financial institutions.
The discounting of letters of credit depends on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to discount the letters of credit and the cost of such arrangements.
Applied sold $766 million and $149 million of accounts receivable during the six months ended April 29, 2018 and April 30, 2017, respectively.
Days sales outstanding for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was 53 days, a decrease compared to day sales outstanding of 61 days for the same period in the prior year.
Days sales outstanding varies due to the timing of shipments and payment terms, and the decrease was primarily due to higher accounts receivable factoring and better collection performance.
Proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, net of purchases of investments, totaled $1.7 billion and were partially offset by capital expenditures of $324 million during the six months ended April 29, 2018.
Applied’s investment portfolio consists principally of investment grade money market mutual funds, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, municipal bonds, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well as equity securities.
Applied regularly monitors the credit risk in its investment portfolio and takes appropriate measures, which may include the sale of certain securities, to manage such risks prudently in accordance with its investment policies.
As of April 29, 2018, gross unrealized losses related to Applied’s investment portfolio were not material.
In February 2018 and December 2017, Applied’s Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.20 per share and $0.10 per share, respectively.
Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders.
This agreement provides for borrowings in United States dollars at interest rates keyed to one of the two rates selected by Applied for each advance and includes financial and other covenants with which Applied was in compliance as of April 29, 2018.
Remaining credit facilities in the amount of approximately $73 million are with Japanese banks.
Applied’s ability to borrow under these facilities is subject to bank approval at the time of the borrowing request, and any advances will be at rates indexed to the banks’ prime reference rate denominated in Japanese yen.
No amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities as of both April 29, 2018 and October 29, 2017, and Applied has not utilized these credit facilities.
In fiscal 2011, Applied established a short-term commercial paper program of up to $1.5 billion.
As of April 29, 2018, Applied did not have any commercial paper outstanding but may issue commercial paper notes under this program from time to time in the future.
In March 2017, Applied issued senior unsecured notes in the aggregate principal amount of $2.2 billion.
Applied had senior unsecured notes in the aggregate principal amount of $5.4 billion outstanding as of April 29, 2018.
See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for additional discussion of long-term debt.
Applied may seek to refinance its existing debt and may incur additional indebtedness depending on Applied’s capital requirements and the availability of financing.
In the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to third parties as required for certain transactions initiated by either Applied or its subsidiaries.
As of April 29, 2018, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee agreements was approximately $64 million.
Applied has not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee agreements beyond that required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed.
Applied does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these guarantee agreements.
Applied also has agreements with various banks to facilitate subsidiary banking operations worldwide, including overdraft arrangements, issuance of bank guarantees, and letters of credit.
As of April 29, 2018, Applied Materials, Inc. has provided parent guarantees to banks for approximately $150 million to cover these arrangements.
While Applied believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts as of April 29, 2018 is adequate, it will continue to closely monitor customer liquidity and economic conditions.
During the six months ended April 29, 2018, Applied recorded a $1.1 billion tax charge associated with the Tax Act, which included an estimate of a one-time transition tax and represents the tax payable over eight years, with 8 percent of the balance due in each of the first five years.
Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of factors such as those discussed above, Applied’s management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applied’s liquidity requirements for the next 12 months.
For further details regarding Applied’s operating, investing and financing activities, see the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows in this report.
Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in this report describe the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies.
Applied bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances.
These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as Applied’s operating environment changes.
These changes have historically been minor and have been included in the consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known.
Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized.
Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product, current and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs.
Applied’s warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period.
As Applied’s customer engineers and process support engineers are highly trained and deployed globally, labor availability is a significant factor in determining labor costs.
The quantity and availability of critical replacement parts is another significant factor in estimating warranty costs.
Unforeseen component failures or exceptional component performance can also result in changes to warranty costs.
Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.
This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified.
Inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis.
The carrying value of inventory is reduced for estimated obsolescence by the difference between its cost and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand.
Applied evaluates the inventory carrying value for potential excess and obsolete inventory exposures by analyzing historical and anticipated demand.
Applied reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also annually reviews goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives for impairment.
Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition.
If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value.
To test goodwill for impairment, Applied first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.
If it is concluded that this is the case, Applied then performs the two-step goodwill impairment test.
Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required.
If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill.
If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference.
Applied determines the fair value of each reporting unit based on a weighting of an income and a market approach.
Applied bases the fair value estimates on assumptions that it believes to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain.
The estimates used in the impairment testing are consistent with the discrete forecasts that Applied uses to manage its business, and considers any significant developments during the period.
The estimated future cash flows are discounted to present value using each reporting unit’s weighted average cost of capital.
The weighted average cost of capital measures a reporting unit’s cost of debt and equity financing weighted by the percentage of debt and equity in a reporting unit’s target capital structure.
In addition, the weighted average cost of capital is derived using both known and estimated market metrics, and is adjusted to reflect both the timing and risks associated with the estimated cash flows.
Under the market approach, Applied uses the guideline company method which applies market multiples to forecasted revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
Applied uses market multiples that are consistent with comparable publicly-traded companies and considers each reporting unit’s size, growth and profitability relative to its comparable companies.
Management uses significant judgment when assessing goodwill for potential impairment, especially in emerging markets.
Deferred tax assets are also recognized for net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
Deferred tax assets are offset by a valuation allowance to the extent it is more likely than not that they are not expected to be realized.
The tax benefits recognized from such positions are estimated based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
Management uses non-GAAP adjusted financial measures to evaluate the Company’s operating and financial performance and for planning purposes, and as performance measures in its executive compensation program.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are provided in the financial tables presented below.
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, and may exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results.
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets.
2Applied adopted the accounting standard related to share-based compensation (ASU 2016-09) in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, which resulted in $53 million tax benefit on a GAAP basis for the six months ended April 29, 2018; this benefit is being recognized ratably over the fiscal year on a non-GAAP basis.
1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets.
The following table provides information as of April 29, 2018 with respect to the shares of common stock repurchased by Applied during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
