Item 2.
Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays.
Fiscal 2019 and 2018 contain 52 weeks each, and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contained 39 weeks.
Investment in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment and services continued to be the main driver of revenue during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment customers’ investments in new capacity and technology transitions decreased compared to the same period in the prior year.
Applied continued to see growth in demand for services and continued demand for spares from customers as compared to the same period in the prior year.
While Applied anticipates major technology trends to drive long-term growth in the semiconductor industry, the softening in demand that began during the second half of 2018 is expected to continue through 2019, led primarily by lower spending from memory customers.
Foundry and logic spending is expected to increase year-on-year; however, customers are prioritizing spending on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied’s product portfolio.
Applied expects lower spending for display manufacturing equipment in fiscal 2019, although long-term demand drivers remain in place.
Applied anticipates its global services business to continue to grow in fiscal 2019.
The three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of new U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.01 and $1.05, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales decreased primarily due to decreased customer investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment.
The Semiconductor Systems segment continued to represent the largest contributor of total net sales.
The increase in net sales to customers in Taiwan and United States for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year was primarily due to increased investments in semiconductor manufacturing equipment.
The decrease in net sales to customers in all other regions for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected a decrease in investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment.
Gross margin during the three months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $23 million and $22 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
Gross margin during the nine months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $67 million and $65 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
Applied’s future operating results depend to a considerable extent on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the equipment and service products it provides.
Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product, which typically has a shorter development cycle, or a new product, which typically has a longer development cycle.
Most of Applied’s existing products resulted from internal development activities and innovations involving new technologies, materials and processes.
Marketing and selling expenses decreased slightly in the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower variable compensation expenses.
Marketing and selling expenses during the three months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $8 million and $7 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
Marketing and selling expenses during the nine months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 each included $23 million of share-based compensation expense.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Applied completed the accounting for the Tax Act during the measurement period, which ended one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act.
Accounting for the remeasurement of deferred tax assets was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, and the accounting for the transition tax was completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
As a result, Applied reversed a tax benefit of $96 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 that had been realized in the first half of fiscal 2019.
An accounting policy choice is allowed to treat GILTI temporary differences in taxable income either as a current-period expense when incurred (period cost method) or factor such amounts into the measurement of deferred taxes (deferred method).
Applied’s effective tax rates for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 27.0 percent and 5.7 percent, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was higher than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to the regulations released on June 14, 2019.
Applied’s effective tax rates for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 17.3 percent and 35.2 percent, respectively.
The effective tax rate was lower than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $1.1 billion in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 for the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act.
Excluding the tax expense of $1.1 billion, the effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was higher than the rate in the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to certain provisions in the Tax Act becoming effective in fiscal 2019, $79 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 related to changes in uncertain tax positions and the excess tax benefit from share-based compensation in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 being $42 million less than in the same period in the prior fiscal year.
The results for each reportable segment are discussed below.
The Semiconductor Systems segment is comprised primarily of capital equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips.
Semiconductor industry spending on capital equipment is driven by demand for advanced electronic products, including smartphones and other mobile devices, servers, personal computers, automotive devices, storage, and other products, and the nature and timing of technological advances in fabrication processes, and as a result is subject to variable industry conditions.
Development efforts are focused on solving customers’ key technical challenges in transistor, interconnect, patterning and packaging performance as devices scale to advanced technology nodes.
Semiconductor manufacturing equipment customers made investments in new capacity and technology transitions, although overall spending decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year.
Applied continues to see customers optimize existing capacity and focus their capital spending plans on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied’s product portfolio.
The following region accounted for at least 30 percent of total net sales for the Semiconductor Systems segment for one or more of the periods presented.
The Applied Global Services segment provides integrated solutions to optimize equipment and fab performance and productivity, including spares, upgrades, services, certain remanufactured earlier generation equipment and factory automation software for semiconductor, display and solar products.
Demand for Applied Global Services’ service solutions are driven by Applied’s large and growing installed base of manufacturing systems, and customers’ needs to shorten ramp times, improve device performance and yield, and optimize factory output and operating costs.
Industry conditions that affect Applied Global Services’ sales of spares and services are primarily characterized by increases in semiconductor manufacturers’ wafer starts and continued strong utilization rates, growth of the installed base of equipment, growing service intensity of newer tools, and the Company’s ability to sell more comprehensive service agreements.
Net sales for the three months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower customer spending on semiconductor spares, partially offset by higher customer spending for comprehensive service agreements.
Net sales for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for comprehensive service agreements and legacy systems, partially offset by lower customer spending on semiconductor spares.
Operating income and operating margin for the three months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year decreased due to lower net sales and higher expenses related to an increase in headcount.
Operating income for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher net sales, partially offset by higher expenses related to an increase in headcount.
Operating margin for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased slightly compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in headcount to support revenue growth.
In the three months ended July 28, 2019, two customers each accounted for more than 10 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
There was no region that accounted for at least 30 percent of total net sales for the Applied Global Services segment for any of the periods presented.
The Display and Adjacent Markets segment encompasses products for manufacturing liquid crystal and OLED displays, and other display technologies for TVs, monitors, laptops, personal computers, electronic tablets, smart phones, and other consumer-oriented devices, equipment upgrades and flexible coating systems.
The segment is focused on expanding its presence through technologically-differentiated equipment for manufacturing large-scale LCD TVs, OLEDs, low temperature polysilicon (LTPS), metal oxide, and touch panel sectors; and development of products that provide customers with improved performance and yields.
Display industry growth depends primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs as well as larger and higher resolution displays for next generation mobile devices.
Net sales for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to lower customer investments in mobile and TV display manufacturing equipment.
In the three months ended July 28, 2019, three customers each accounted for at least 10 percent of this segment’s net sales, and together they accounted for approximately 86 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
Cash from operating activities for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 was $2.4 billion, which reflects net income adjusted for the effect of non-cash charges and changes in working capital components.
Non-cash charges included depreciation, amortization, share-based compensation and deferred income taxes.
Cash provided by operating activities decreased in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower cash collections and higher payments to suppliers and for income taxes, offset by a lower change in inventory during the nine months ended July 28, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year.
Applied has agreements with various financial institutions to sell accounts receivable and discount promissory notes from selected customers.
Applied, from time to time, also discounts letters of credit issued by customers through various financial institutions.
The discounting of letters of credit depends on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to discount the letters of credit and the cost of such arrangements.
Applied sold $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion of accounts receivable during the nine months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018, respectively.
Applied did not discount letters of credit issued by customers or discount promissory notes during the nine months ended July 29, 2018.
Days sales outstanding varies due to the timing of shipments and payment terms, and the increase was primarily due to higher revenue and favorable collection performance for the same period in the prior year.
Applied used $357 million of cash in investing activities during the nine months ended July 28, 2019.
Capital expenditures totaled $344 million and were partially offset by the proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, net of purchases of investments of $15 million during the nine months ended July 28, 2019.
Applied’s investment portfolio consists principally of investment grade money market mutual funds, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, municipal bonds, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well as equity securities.
Applied regularly monitors the credit risk in its investment portfolio and takes appropriate measures, which may include the sale of certain securities, to manage such risks prudently in accordance with its investment policies.
In June 2019, March 2019 and December 2018, Applied’s Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.21, $0.21 and $0.20 per share, respectively.
The dividend declared in June 2019 is payable in September 2019.
Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders.
This agreement provides for borrowings in United States dollars at interest rates keyed to one of the two rates selected by Applied for each advance and includes financial and other covenants with which Applied was in compliance as of July 28, 2019.
Remaining credit facilities in the amount of approximately $74 million are with Japanese banks.
Applied’s ability to borrow under these facilities is subject to bank approval at the time of the borrowing request, and any advances will be at rates indexed to the banks’ prime reference rate denominated in Japanese yen.
Applied has not utilized these credit facilities and no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities as of both July 28, 2019 and October 28, 2018.
Under the agreement, the lenders have committed to make an unsecured term loan to Applied of up to $2.0 billion to finance in part Applied’s planned acquisition of all outstanding shares of Kokusai Electric, to pay related transaction fees and expenses and for general corporate purposes.
The commitments of the lenders to make the term loan will terminate if the transactions contemplated by the Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) are not consummated on or before June 30, 2020, which date may be extended by three months on two separate occasions if, on the applicable date, the only remaining conditions to closing relate to required regulatory approvals.
In fiscal 2011, Applied established a short-term commercial paper program of up to $1.5 billion.
As of July 28, 2019, Applied did not have any commercial paper outstanding but may issue commercial paper notes under this program from time to time in the future.
In the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to third parties as required for certain transactions initiated by either Applied or its subsidiaries.
As of July 28, 2019, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee agreements was approximately $74 million.
Applied has not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee agreements beyond that required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed.
Applied does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these guarantee agreements.
Applied also has agreements with various banks to facilitate subsidiary banking operations worldwide, including overdraft arrangements, issuance of bank guarantees, and letters of credit.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
The transition tax expense is payable in installments over eight years, with eight percent due in each of the first five years starting with fiscal 2018.
As of July 28, 2019, Applied has $961 million of total payments remaining, payable in installments in the next seven years.
Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of factors such as those discussed above, Applied’s management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applied’s liquidity requirements for the next 12 months.
For further details regarding Applied’s operating, investing and financing activities, see the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows in this report.
Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in this report describe the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies.
Applied bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances.
These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as Applied’s operating environment changes.
These changes have historically been minor and have been included in the consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known.
Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized.
Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product, current and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs.
Applied’s warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period.
As Applied’s customer engineers and process support engineers are highly trained and deployed globally, labor availability is a significant factor in determining labor costs.
The quantity and availability of critical replacement parts is another significant factor in estimating warranty costs.
Unforeseen component failures or exceptional component performance can also result in changes to warranty costs.
Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.
This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified.
Inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis.
The carrying value of inventory is reduced for estimated obsolescence by the difference between its cost and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand.
Applied evaluates the inventory carrying value for potential excess and obsolete inventory exposures by analyzing historical and anticipated demand.
Applied reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also annually reviews goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives for impairment.
Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition.
If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value.
To test goodwill for impairment, Applied first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.
If it is concluded that this is the case, Applied then performs the two-step goodwill impairment test.
Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required.
If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill.
If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference.
Applied determines the fair value of each reporting unit based on a weighting of an income and a market approach.
Applied bases the fair value estimates on assumptions that it believes to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain.
The estimates used in the impairment testing are consistent with the discrete forecasts that Applied uses to manage its business, and considers any significant developments during the period.
Under the discounted cash flow method, cash flows beyond the discrete forecasts are estimated using a terminal growth rate, which considers the long-term earnings growth rate specific to the reporting units.
The estimated future cash flows are discounted to present value using each reporting unit’s weighted average cost of capital.
The weighted average cost of capital measures a reporting unit’s cost of debt and equity financing weighted by the percentage of debt and equity in a reporting unit’s target capital structure.
In addition, the weighted average cost of capital is derived using both known and estimated market metrics, and is adjusted to reflect both the timing and risks associated with the estimated cash flows.
The tax rate used in the discounted cash flow method is the median tax rate of comparable companies and reflects Applied’s current international structure, which is consistent with the market participant perspective.
Under the market approach, Applied uses the guideline company method which applies market multiples to forecasted revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
Applied uses market multiples that are consistent with comparable publicly-traded companies and considers each reporting unit’s size, growth and profitability relative to its comparable companies.
Management uses significant judgment when assessing goodwill for potential impairment, especially in emerging markets.
See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of goodwill impairment.
Deferred tax assets are also recognized for net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
Deferred tax assets are offset by a valuation allowance to the extent it is more likely than not that they are not expected to be realized.
The tax benefits recognized from such positions are estimated based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
Management uses non-GAAP adjusted financial measures to evaluate the Company’s operating and financial performance and for planning purposes, and as performance measures in its executive compensation program.
Applied believes these measures enhance an overall understanding of its performance and investors’ ability to review the Company’s business from the same perspective as the Company’s management and facilitate comparisons of this period’s results with prior periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that management does not believe are indicative of Applied’s ongoing operating performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are provided in the financial tables presented below.
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets.
2GAAP basis tax benefit related to share-based compensation is being recognized ratably over the fiscal year on a non-GAAP basis.
1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets.
The following table provides information as of July 28, 2019 with respect to the shares of common stock repurchased by Applied during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 pursuant to a publicly announced stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in February 2018, which authorized up to an aggregate of $6.0 billion in repurchases.
