ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.





MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.





MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.





MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.





MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 







See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.





MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 







The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. and all of its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company” or “Maxim Integrated”) included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States of America (“GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to applicable rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for fair statement have been included. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data were derived from audited consolidated financial statements but do not include all disclosures required by GAAP. The results of operations for the three months ended September 28, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2019. 



The Company has a 52-to-53-week fiscal year that ends on the last Saturday in June. Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will be a 53-week fiscal year. Fiscal years 2019 and 2020 are 52-week fiscal years.





Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements





In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-02 (ASU 2016-02), Leases (Topic 842). Topic 842 states that lessees will recognize a lease liability for the commitment to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the underlying asset, for the duration of the lease. The FASB also issued ASU 2018-10 and ASU 2018-11 which provide improvements to ASU 2016-02 and an additional transition method option, respectively. This transition method allows a Company to apply the new lease accounting standard on adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The Company adopted ASU 2016-02 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.



The Company adopted the new standard using the modified retrospective method and electing the optional transition method practical expedient. Under the optional transition method, the Company recognized a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet and did not adjust comparative prior period information. 





•the hindsight practical expedient, in which the Company elected to use hindsight up until the effective date in determining the lease term and assessing impairment of right-of-use assets; 



•the practical expedient package that allows the Company to carry forward its determination of whether a lease exists, the classification of a lease, and whether initial direct lease costs exist for purposes of transition to the new standard; and 



•the practical expedient to combine lease and non-lease components. 



The Company also elected an accounting policy in which it will not apply the recognition requirements to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less. 



Effective June 30, 2019, the first day of adoption, the Company recognized $61.0 million of operating lease right-of-use assets and $65.2 million of operating lease liabilities on its Consolidated Balance Sheet. The adoption of the standard had an immaterial impact on retained earnings. 





Updated Lease Accounting Policy



The Company determines if an arrangement is, or contains, a lease at inception. Lease right-of-use (ROU) assets are recorded as other assets, short-term lease obligations are recorded as accrued expenses and long-term lease obligations are recorded as other liabilities on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company’s classes of assets include real estate leases, equipment leases, and vehicle leases.



Lease ROU assets and lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. When discount rates implicit in leases cannot be readily determined, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on information available at commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.



Lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise such option. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The Company elected to combine lease and non-lease components for all asset classes. In addition, the Company does not apply the recognition requirements to leases with lease terms of 12 months or less. 























Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.



The Company’s Level 1 assets consist of money market funds.



Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. 



The Company’s Level 2 assets and liabilities consist of U.S. Treasury securities, agency securities, corporate debt securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper and foreign currency forward contracts that are valued using quoted market prices or are determined using a yield curve model based on current market rates.



Level 3 - Unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.



The Company's Level 3 assets and liabilities consist of acquisition-related contingent consideration liabilities.







During the three months ended September 28, 2019 and the year ended June 29, 2019, there were no transfers in or out of Level 3 from other levels in the fair value hierarchy.



There were no assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis as of September 28, 2019 and June 29, 2019 other than impairments of long-lived assets. 





As of September 28, 2019 and June 29, 2019, the fair market value of private company investments amounted to $20.2 million and $20.7 million, respectively. The aggregate amount of unrealized losses recognized from these investments were $3.6 million and $3.6 million, respectively, as of September 28, 2019 and June 29, 2019. 



Unrealized gains (losses) on private company investments were not material during the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018.





Short-term investments







In the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, the Company did not recognize any impairment charges on short-term investments. All available-for-sale investments have maturity dates between September 29, 2019 and March 12, 2021.



The Company invests in various financial instruments including U.S. Treasury securities, corporate debt securities, commercial paper, and certificates of deposit which include instruments issued or managed by industrial, financial, and utility institutions and U.S. Treasury securities which include U.S. government Treasury bills and Treasury notes.



Derivative instruments and hedging activities



The Company incurs expenditures denominated in non-U.S. currencies, primarily the Philippine Peso and the Thai Baht associated with the Company's manufacturing activities in the Philippines and Thailand, respectively, and the European Euro, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen, Taiwan New Dollar, South Korean Won, Chinese Yuan and Canadian Dollar, for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the U.S.



The Company has established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. The Company does not use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes.



Derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments 



The Company designates certain forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 815, Derivatives and Hedging (“ASC 815”). As of September 28, 2019 and June 29, 2019, the notional amounts of the forward contracts the Company held to purchase international currencies were $43.0 million and $48.5 million, respectively. As of September 28, 2019 and June 29, 2019, the Company did not hold any forward contracts to sell international currencies. 



Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments



As of September 28, 2019 and June 29, 2019, the notional amounts of the forward contracts the Company held to purchase international currencies were $21.7 million and $19.6 million, respectively, and the notional amounts of forward contracts the Company held to sell international currencies were $21.9 million and $21.1 million, respectively. The Company's foreign currency 





forward contract gains or losses included in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income were not material for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018. 



Effect of hedge accounting on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income







Outstanding debt obligations







On June 15, 2017, the Company completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.45% senior unsecured and unsubordinated notes due in June 2027 (“2027 Notes”), with an effective interest rate of 3.5%. Interest on the 2027 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing on December 15, 2017. The net proceeds of this offering were approximately $495.2 million, after issuing at a discount and deducting paid expenses.



On November 21, 2013, the Company completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s 2.5% coupon senior unsecured and unsubordinated notes due in November 2018 (“2018 Notes”), with an effective interest rate of 2.6%. Interest on the 2018 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing on May 15, 2014. The net proceeds of this offering were approximately $494.5 million, after issuing at a discount and deducting paid expenses. In November of 2018, the Company repaid the entire $500 million in principal and any outstanding interest, related to these outstanding notes.



On March 18, 2013, the Company completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s 3.375% senior unsecured and unsubordinated notes due in March 2023 (“2023 Notes”), with an effective interest rate of 3.5%. Interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The net proceeds of this offering were approximately $490.0 million, after issuing at a discount and deducting paid expenses.



The debt indentures that govern the 2027 Notes and the 2023 Notes include covenants that limit the Company's ability to grant liens on its facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit the Company's ability to secure additional debt funding in the future. In circumstances involving a change of control of the Company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the 2027 Notes or the 2023 Notes, the Company would be required to make an offer to repurchase the affected notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. 





The Company accounts for all the notes above based on their amortized cost. The discount and expenses are being amortized to Interest and other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income over the life of the notes. The interest expense is recorded in Interest and other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Amortized discount and expenses, as well as interest expense associated with the notes, were $8.9 million and $12.4 million during the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively. 



The estimated fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt obligations was approximately $1.03 billion as of September 28, 2019. The estimated fair value of the debt is based primarily on observable market inputs and is a Level 2 measurement.



The Company recorded interest expense of $9.3 million and $12.6 million during the three months ended September 28, 2019, and September 29, 2018, respectively. 



Other Financial Instruments



For the balance of the Company’s financial instruments, cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities. 





At September 28, 2019, the Company had one stock incentive plan, the Company's 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the “1996 Plan”) and one employee stock purchase plan, the 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “2008 ESPP”). The 1996 Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors to provide the grant of incentive stock options, non-statutory stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and market stock units (“MSUs”) to employees, directors, and consultants. 



Pursuant to the 1996 Plan, the exercise price for incentive stock options and non-statutory stock options is determined to be the fair market value of the underlying shares on the date of grant. Options typically vest ratably over a four-year period measured from the date of grant. Options generally expire no later than seven years after the date of grant, subject to earlier termination upon an optionee's cessation of employment or service.



RSUs granted to employees typically vest ratably over a four-year period and are converted into shares of the Company's common stock upon vesting, subject to the employee's continued service to the Company over that period. RSUs granted after August 2017 will continue to vest post-employment at the Company for certain individuals satisfying specific eligibility requirements.



MSUs granted to employees typically vest over a four-year cliff period and are converted into shares of the Company's common stock upon vesting, subject to the employee's continued service to the Company over that period. The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance period can range from zero to a maximum cap depending on the Company's performance. MSUs granted after August 2017 will continue to vest post-employment at the Company for certain individuals satisfying specific eligibility requirements.









The expenses included in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for RSUs include expenses related to MSUs of $4.4 million and $2.4 million for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively.



Stock Options



The fair value of options granted to employees under the 1996 Plan is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. 



There were no stock options granted in the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018. 









As of September 28, 2019, there was no unrecognized stock compensation from unvested stock options.



Restricted Stock Units and Other Awards





The fair value of RSUs and other awards under the Company’s 1996 Plan is estimated using the value of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on the Company’s common stock prior to vesting. The Company also estimates forfeitures at the time of grant and makes revisions to forfeitures on a quarterly basis.



The weighted-average fair value of RSUs and other awards granted was $47.61 and $54.98 per share for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively.









The Company withheld shares totaling $9.9 million in value as a result of employee withholding taxes based on the value of RSUs on their vesting date for the three months ended September 28, 2019. Total payments for employees’ tax obligations to taxing authorities are reflected as financing activities within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.



As of September 28, 2019, there was $193.4 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to 5.8 million unvested RSUs and other awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 3.0 years. 



Market Stock Units (MSUs)





The weighted-average fair value of MSUs granted was $54.70 and $75.48 per share for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively. 











As of September 28, 2019, there was $37.1 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to 1.0 million unvested MSUs, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 3.0 years. 



Employee Stock Purchase Plan



Employees are granted rights to acquire common stock under the 2008 ESPP.







As of September 28, 2019, there was $4.0 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to the 2008 ESPP.





Basic earnings per share are computed using the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. For purposes of computing basic earnings per share, the weighted average number of outstanding shares of common stock excludes unvested RSUs and other awards as well as MSUs. Diluted earnings per share incorporates the incremental shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of stock options, assumed release of unvested RSUs and other awards as well as MSUs, and assumed issuance of common stock under the 2008 ESPP using the treasury stock method.









For the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 no stock awards were determined to be anti-dilutive. Therefore, none were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share. 







The Company currently has one operating segment and reportable segment. In accordance with ASC No. 280, Segment Reporting (“ASC 280”), the Company considers operating segments to be components of the Company’s business for which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the Company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Chief Operating Decision Maker for the Company was assessed and determined to be the CEO. The CEO reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. Accordingly, the Company has determined that it has a single operating and reportable segment.



Enterprise-wide information is provided in accordance with ASC 280. Geographical revenue information is based on customers’ ship-to location. Long-lived assets consist of property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment information is based on the physical location of the assets at the end of each fiscal year.

























In the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $17.7 million and $36.2 million, respectively. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 was 11.2% and 15.5%, respectively.



The Company’s federal statutory tax rate is 21%. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates, partially offset by U.S. tax expense related to Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income.



The Company’s federal corporate income tax returns are audited on a recurring basis by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). In fiscal year 2017, the IRS commenced an audit of the Company’s federal corporate income tax returns for fiscal years 2012 through 2014, which is ongoing. The Company expects that in fiscal year 2020 the IRS will commence an audit of the Company's federal corporate income tax returns for fiscal years 2015 through 2017.





Legal Proceedings



The Company is party or subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of business, including proceedings and claims that relate to intellectual property matters. While the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company does not believe that the outcome of any of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will result in losses that are materially in excess of amounts already recognized or reserved, if any. 



Indemnification



The Company indemnifies certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees, damages and costs awarded against such parties in certain circumstances in which the Company's products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks or copyrights. The terms of the Company's indemnification obligations are generally perpetual from the effective date of the agreement. In certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to the Company's potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims.



Pursuant to the Company's charter documents and separate written indemnification agreements, the Company has certain indemnification obligations to its current officers, employees and directors, as well as certain former officers and directors.





On October 30, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of the Company’s common stock. The stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity will depend on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors. All prior repurchase authorizations by the Company’s Board of Directors for the repurchase of common stock were cancelled and superseded by this repurchase authorization.



During the three months ended September 28, 2019, the Company repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of its common stock for $93.6 million. As of September 28, 2019, the Company had remaining authorization of $1.0 billion for future share repurchases. The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of such repurchases will be based on several factors, including the price of the Company’s common stock and general market and business conditions.





The Company's lease obligations consist of operating leases for domestic and international office facilities, data centers, and equipment. These leases expire at various dates through fiscal year 2031. For the three months ended September 28, 2019, the Company recorded operating lease expense of $2.9 million. 

















The incremental borrowing rate used by the Company is based on the most recent June 2017 debt offering of the Company's 3.450% senior unsecured and unsubordinated notes. 





Goodwill



The Company monitors the recoverability of goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions, by reporting unit, annually, or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 



There were no changes to goodwill for the three months ended September 28, 2019.



No indicators or instances of impairment were identified in the three months and fiscal year ended September 28, 2019 and June 29, 2019, respectively.





Intangible Assets

















ITEM 1: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information set forth above under Part I, Item 1, Note 11 “Commitments and Contingencies” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS



A description of risks associated with our business, financial condition and results of our operations is set forth in Item 1A - Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2019, which is incorporated herein by reference. 



