item1.txt
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
From a lessor perspective, in 2017, the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance resulted in the company recognizing $452 million of sales-type lease revenue that would otherwise have been recognized over the lease period as operating lease revenue.
The company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2018, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
In January 2017, the company had one transaction that generated a $582 million benefit to income tax expense, income from continuing operations and net income and a benefit to both basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.62 per share for the six months ended June 30, 2017.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, control of a promised product or service transfers to a client, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring those products or services.
In these types of arrangements, revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client and the vendor, and gross when the company is the principal for the transaction.
To the extent the company grants the customer the option to acquire additional products or services in one of these arrangements, the company accounts for the option as a distinct performance obligation in the contract only if the option provides a material right to the customer that it would not receive without entering into the contract (e.g., a discount incremental to the range of discounts typically given for the product or service), in which case the client in effect pays in advance for the option to purchase future products or services.
The company recognizes revenue when those future products or services are transferred or when the option expires.
In services arrangements, the company typically satisfies the performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time.
In design and build arrangements, the performance obligation is satisfied over time either because the client controls the asset as it is created (e.g., when the asset is built at the customer site) or because the company’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the company has an enforceable right to payment plus a reasonable profit for performance completed to date.
Revenue related to maintenance and support services and extended warranty is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of performance because the company is standing ready to provide services.
In fixed-price design and build contracts, revenue is recognized based on progress towards completion of the performance obligation using a cost-to-cost measure of progress (i.e., percentage-of-completion (POC) method of accounting).
In some services contracts, the company bills the client prior to recognizing revenue from performing the services.
When the company performs services prior to billing the client in design and build contracts, the right to consideration is typically subject to milestone completion or client acceptance and the unbilled accounts receivable is classified as a contract asset.
Revenue from hardware sales is recognized when control has transferred to the customer which typically occurs when the hardware has been shipped to the client, risk of loss has transferred to the client and the company has a present right to payment for the hardware.
Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the client, if the software license is distinct from the post-contract support offered by the company.
Prior to the adoption of the new revenue standard, the company recognized revenue for these software licenses at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement.
Revenue from post-contract support is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis because the company is providing a service of standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed, and is providing unspecified software upgrades on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term.
This review is done by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the remaining amount of consideration the company expects to receive for the services to which the asset relates, less the costs that relate directly to providing those services that have not yet been recognized.
The company classifies the right to consideration in exchange for products or services transferred to a client as either a receivable or a contract asset.
The majority of the company’s contract assets represent unbilled amounts related to design and build services contracts when the cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition is utilized, revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the client, and the right to consideration is subject to milestone completion or client acceptance.
The remaining performance obligation (RPO) disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be recognized as of the end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the company expects to recognize these amounts in revenue.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended June 30, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at April 1, 2018 was $4.0 billion and primarily relates to services and software.
The amount of revenue recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at January 1, 2018 was $6.0 billion and primarily relates to services and software.
In accordance with the modified retrospective method transition requirements, the company will present the financial statement line items impacted and adjusted to compare to presentation under the prior GAAP for each of the interim and annual periods during the first year of adoption of the new revenue standard.
Effective January 1, 2018, the company adopted the new FASB guidance on recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments using the cumulative catch-up transition method.
Under the new standard, the company measures equity investments at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The following tables present the company’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
(4)   The gross balances of derivative assets contained within prepaid expenses and other current assets, and investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at June 30, 2018 were $301 million and $398 million, respectively.
(4)   The gross balances of derivative assets contained within prepaid expenses and other current assets, and investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2017 were $185 million and $757 million, respectively.
For other long-term debt for which a quoted market price is not available, an expected present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities is used to estimate fair value.
The carrying amount of long-term debt was $37,851 million and $39,837 million, and the estimated fair value was $39,554 million and $42,264 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
These arrangements require the company to hold or post collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury securities) when the derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds.
The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments under these collateralized arrangements that were in a liability position at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $24 million and $126 million, respectively, for which no collateral was posted at either date.
The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in asset positions at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $699 million and $942 million, respectively.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net exposure related to derivative assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $436 million and $572 million, respectively.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net position related to derivative liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $55 million and $160 million, respectively.
In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the company does not offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost transactions was $8.4 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, in connection with cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated borrowings, the company recorded net gains of $129 million and net gains of $42 million (before taxes), respectively, in AOCI.
The company estimates that $187 million (before taxes) of deferred net gains on derivatives in AOCI at June 30, 2018, will be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying exposure.
In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company’s nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities.


item2.txt
Total consolidated revenue increased 3.7 percent as reported and 1.6 percent adjusted for currency, reflecting the company’s highest constant currency growth in seven years.
Strategic imperatives revenue of $10.1 billion increased 15 percent as reported and 13 percent adjusted for currency in the second quarter, led by cloud and security.
Cloud revenue of $4.7 billion increased 20 percent (18 percent adjusted for currency) driven by as-a-Service revenue which grew 26 percent as reported and 24 percent adjusted for currency.
Income from continuing operations of $2.4 billion increased 3.0 percent and the net income margin was 12.0 percent, a decrease of 0.1 points versus the second quarter of 2017.
Total consolidated revenue increased 4.4 percent year to year as reported and 0.8 percent adjusted for currency in the first six months of 2018.
In the first six months of 2018, the company’s strategic imperatives revenue increased 15 percent year to year as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency.
Strategic imperatives revenue over the last 12 months was $39.0 billion, an increase of 15 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency, representing 48 percent of the company’s total revenue.
Total Cloud revenue in the first six months of 2018 of $8.9 billion increased 20 percent year to year as reported and 16 percent adjusted for currency, with as-a-Service revenue up 25 percent (22 percent adjusted for currency).
Cognitive Solutions revenue of $4,580 million increased 0.5 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year, with Solutions Software revenue flat as reported but declined adjusted for currency and Transaction Processing Software revenue grew as reported but declined adjusted for currency.
For the first six months of the year, Cognitive Solutions revenue of $8,879 million grew 3.0 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency, with growth in Solutions Software both as reported and adjusted for currency.
In the second quarter, Solutions Software revenue of $3,214 million increased 0.6 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year.
Transaction Processing Software revenue of $1,366 million was flat as reported, but declined 2 percent adjusted for currency, driven by declines in Storage software partially offset by growth in IBM Z and Power Systems middleware.
In the second quarter, pre-tax income of $1,756 million increased 9.1 percent compared to the prior year with a pre-tax margin improvement of 2.4 points to 33.2 percent.
Global Business Services revenue of $4,192 million increased 2.3 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year.
For the first six months of the year, Global Business Services revenue of $8,365 million increased 3.2 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency.
In the second quarter, Consulting revenue of $1,931 million increased 6.0 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year led by the company’s offerings in Cloud and Digital.
Global Process Services (GPS) revenue of $315 million decreased 1.5 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year.
In the second quarter, Infrastructure Services revenue of $5,768 million increased 4.0 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year, driven primarily by improved realization of revenue from backlog as the company shifts clients to the cloud.
Technical Support Services second-quarter revenue of $1,750 million decreased 2.5 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) due in part to the dynamics of the IBM Z product cycle as clients move from maintenance to warranty for the first year, partially offset by continued growth in core multi-vendor support services.
Integration Software second quarter revenue of $1,097 million increased 2.8 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year driven by good performance in offerings that modernize applications and enable cloud adoption, including IBM Cloud Private.
Systems revenue of $2,177 million grew 24.6 percent as reported (23 percent adjusted for currency) in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year.
Operating Systems Software revenue of $421 million was essentially flat as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year.
For the first six months of 2018, Systems revenue of $3,676 million increased 17.0 percent as reported (14 percent adjusted for currency) with strong growth in Systems Hardware both as reported and adjusted for currency driven by IBM Z and Power Systems.
Operating Systems Software increased 1.8 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency, compared to the prior year.
Second quarter IBM Z revenue grew 114.5 percent as reported (112 percent adjusted for currency) year to year, driven by new workload MIPS.
Power Systems grew revenue 5.0 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) year to year, driven by the new POWER9 entry-level portfolio and continued growth in Linux.
Storage Systems returned to growth in the second quarter with revenue up 3.7 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency) year to year.
In the second quarter of 2018, pre-tax income of $346 million grew 376.8 percent and pre-tax margin increased 10.5 points year to year to 14.3 percent driven primarily by the IBM Z product cycle.
For the first six months of the year, pre-tax income of $143 million increased $258 million and pre-tax margin increased 6.8 points year to year to 3.5 percent also due to the IBM Z product cycle, partially offset by actions taken in the first quarter to better position the systems cost structure over the longer term, which impacted the pre-tax margin by 2.7 points.
Global Financing pre-tax income increased 26.8 percent to $357 million in the second quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to higher gross profit of $95 million, partially offset by an increase in expense of $19 million.
Total revenue of $20,003 million increased 3.7 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year.
Operating (non-GAAP) other (income) and expense was income of $115 million in the second quarter of 2018, an increase of 44.1 percent year to year.
Overall interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) for the second quarter and first six months of 2018 was $367 million and $713 million, respectively, an increase of $47 million and $101 million versus the comparable prior year periods, primarily driven by a higher average debt balance and higher average interest rates.
Non-operating costs of $394 million in the second quarter of 2018 increased $45 million year to year, driven primarily by lower expected return on plan assets ($66 million) and an increase in recognized actuarial losses ($26 million), partially offset by lower interest costs ($52 million).
Non-operating costs of $796 million increased $100 million in the first six months of 2018 compared to the prior year, driven primarily by lower expected return on plan assets ($114 million) and an increase in recognized actuarial losses ($67 million); partially offset by lower interest costs ($93 million).
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2018 was 13.5 percent, an increase of 8.9 points compared to the second quarter of 2017.
In the second quarter, the company delivered revenue growth, as reported and adjusted for currency, pre-tax income growth (GAAP and operating (non-GAAP)) 
Non-operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, an increase of approximately $200 million compared to 2017, driven by lower income from expected return on assets and a year-to-year impact due to the pension obligation adjustment resulting from the successful resolution of the UK pension litigation matter in 2017.


part2.txt
Item 1.


