item1.txt
The company is currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The company is currently planning on electing the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance.
The company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2018, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
In January 2017, the company had one transaction that generated a $582 million benefit to income tax expense, income from continuing operations and net income and a benefit to both basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.62 per share for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, control of a promised product or service transfers to a client, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring those products or services.
In these types of arrangements, revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client and the vendor, and gross when the company is the principal for the transaction.
The company recognizes revenue on sales to solution providers, resellers and distributors (herein referred to as “resellers”) when the reseller has economic substance apart from the company and the reseller is considered the principal for the transaction with the end-user client.
To the extent the company grants the customer the option to acquire additional products or services in one of these arrangements, the company accounts for the option as a distinct performance obligation in the contract only if the option provides a material right to the customer that it would not receive without entering into the contract (e.g., a discount incremental to the range of discounts typically given for the product or service), in which case the client in effect pays in advance for the option to purchase future products or services.
The company recognizes revenue when those future products or services are transferred or when the option expires.
In services arrangements, the company typically satisfies the performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time.
In design and build arrangements, the performance obligation is satisfied over time either because the client controls the asset as it is created (e.g., when the asset is built at the customer site) or because the company’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the company has an enforceable right to payment plus a reasonable profit for performance completed to date.
In most other services arrangements, the performance obligation is satisfied over time because the client simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the company performs the services.
Revenue related to maintenance and support services and extended warranty is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of performance because the company is standing ready to provide services.
In fixed-price design and build contracts, revenue is recognized based on progress towards completion of the performance obligation using a cost-to-cost measure of progress (i.e., percentage-of-completion (POC) method of accounting).
In some services contracts, the company bills the client prior to recognizing revenue from performing the services.
In other services contracts, the company performs the services prior to billing the client.
When the company performs services prior to billing the client in design and build contracts, the right to consideration is typically subject to milestone completion or client acceptance and the unbilled accounts receivable is classified as a contract asset.
Revenue from hardware sales is recognized when control has transferred to the customer which typically occurs when the hardware has been shipped to the client, risk of loss has transferred to the client and the company has a present right to payment for the hardware.
Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the client, if the software license is distinct from the post-contract support offered by the company.
Prior to the adoption of the new revenue standard, the company recognized revenue for these software licenses at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement.
Revenue from post-contract support is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis because the company is providing a service of standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed, and is providing unspecified software upgrades on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term.
In situations in which an outsourcing contract is terminated, the terms of the contract may require the client to reimburse the company for the recovery of unbilled accounts receivable, unamortized deferred costs incurred to purchase specific assets utilized in the delivery of services and to pay any additional costs incurred by the company to transition the services.
The company classifies the right to consideration in exchange for products or services transferred to a client as either a receivable or a contract asset.
The majority of the company’s contract assets represent unbilled amounts related to design and build services contracts when the cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition is utilized, revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the client, and the right to consideration is subject to milestone completion or client acceptance.
At January 1, 2018 and March 31, 2018 contract assets of $557 million and $582 million, respectively, are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The remaining performance obligation disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be recognized as of the end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the company expects to recognize these amounts in revenue.
For the three months ending March 31, 2018, revenue was reduced by $22 million for performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, mainly due to changes in estimates on percentage-of-completion based contracts.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at January 1, 2018 was $3.5 billion and primarily relates to services and software.
In accordance with the modified retrospective method transition requirements, the company will present the financial statement line items impacted and adjusted to compare to presentation under the prior GAAP for each of the interim and annual periods during the first year of adoption of the new revenue standard.
Effective January 1, 2018, the company adopted the new FASB guidance on recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments using the cumulative catch-up transition method.
Under the new standard, the company measures equity investments at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The following tables present the company’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
For other long-term debt for which a quoted market price is not available, an expected present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities is used to estimate fair value.
These arrangements require the company to hold or post collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury securities) when the derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds.
The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments under these collateralized arrangements that were in a liability position at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $42 million and $126 million, respectively, for which no collateral was posted at either date.
The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in asset positions at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $940 million and $942 million, respectively.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net exposure related to derivative assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $506 million and $572 million, respectively.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net position related to derivative liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $80 million and $160 million, respectively.
In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the company does not offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments.
The company may employ derivative instruments to hedge the volatility in stockholders’ equity resulting from changes in currency exchange rates of significant foreign subsidiaries of the company with respect to the U.S. dollar.
These instruments, designated as net investment hedges, expose the company to liquidity risk as the derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity which is not offset by a cash flow from the translation of the underlying hedged equity.
Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company may utilize derivatives to offset the changes in the fair value of the de-designated instruments from the date of de-designation until maturity.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, in connection with cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated borrowings, the company recorded net gains of $122 million and net gains of $42 million (before taxes), respectively, in AOCI.
The company estimates that $194 million (before taxes) of deferred net gains on derivatives in AOCI at March 31, 2018, will be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying exposure.
In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company’s nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities.


item2.txt
In the first quarter of 2018, the company reported $19.1 billion in revenue, $1.7 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.3 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.81 as reported and $2.45 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
Strategic imperatives revenue of $9.0 billion increased 15 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency in the first quarter, with double-digit growth in cloud, security and mobile, as the company continues to build new platforms and solutions and embeds cloud and AI capabilities across the business.
Strategic imperatives revenue over the last 12 months was $37.7 billion, an increase of 12 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency, representing 47 percent of the company’s total revenue.
Total Cloud revenue in the first quarter of 2018 of $4.2 billion increased 20 percent as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency, with as-a-Service revenue up 25 percent as reported and 20 percent adjusted for currency.
Analytics revenue of $4.8 billion increased 9 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency.
Mobile revenue increased 19 percent as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency and Security revenue increased 65 percent (60 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting strong demand for the company’s highly-integrated security software, security managed services and the pervasive encryption capabilities in the z14 mainframe, and growth in security software solutions.
Total expense and other (income) increased 9.1 percent in the first quarter of 2018 driven by actions the company took during the quarter to continue the repositioning of the business and due to currency impacts.
The year-to-year increase was primarily the result of a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges (5 points) to further align the company’s skills to the higher value areas, the effects of currency (5 points) and a lower level of intellectual property (IP) income (2 points), partially offset by lower operational spending (3 points), reflecting both a high level of investment and a continued focus on driving productivity.
Cognitive Solutions revenue of $4,299 million grew 5.8 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year as the company continued to scale new platforms and solutions and increase its SaaS offerings.
Solutions Software revenue of $2,957 million grew 5.9 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year, led by offerings in analytics and security.
Transaction Processing Software revenue of $1,341 million grew 5.7 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year.
Pre-tax income of $1,333 million increased 5.1 percent in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year.
Global Business Services revenue of $4,174 million grew 4.2 percent as reported (decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency) in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year.
As the company continues to transform this business, GBS signings grew again in the quarter, both as reported and adjusted for currency.
Consulting revenue of $1,867 million grew 5.5 percent as reported (flat adjusted for currency) year to year in the first quarter of 2018.
Global Process Services revenue of $305 million decreased 2.9 percent as reported (6 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the first quarter of the prior year.
Application Management revenue of $2,002 million grew 4.1 percent as reported (decreased 2 percent adjusted for currency) and reflected sequential improvement from the year-to-year performance in the fourth quarter of 2017.
Application Management signings grew double digits as reported and adjusted for currency compared to the prior year as the company leverages its incumbency to help clients modernize their critical applications and migrate to the cloud.
Within GBS, total strategic imperatives revenue of $2.5 billion grew 12 percent as reported (6 percent adjusted for currency) year to year.
Cloud revenue of $1.0 billion grew 19 percent as reported (12 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.2 billion.
Infrastructure Services revenue of $5,825 million grew 6.2 percent as reported (flat adjusted for currency) compared to the first quarter of the prior year.
Technical Support Services revenue of $1,782 million grew 1.2 percent as reported (decreased 4 percent adjusted for currency) year to year due in part to the hardware cycle dynamics, offset by growth in core multi-vendor support services.
Integration Software first-quarter revenue of $1,019 million grew 5.1 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year, with continued strong growth in SaaS offerings across the portfolio and the company’s new IBM Cloud Private offering.
The estimated total services backlog at March 31, 2018 was $121 billion, an increase of 4.2 percent as reported (decrease of 2 percent adjusted for currency).
Systems revenue of $1,500 million grew 7.5 percent year to year as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year.
The company has modernized its systems for the most contemporary workloads and, within Systems Hardware, revenue of $1,093 million grew 9.2 percent year to year as reported (6 percent adjusted for currency).
Operating Systems Software revenue of $407 million grew 3.2 percent as reported (decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year.
Power Systems grew for the second consecutive quarter with revenue up 6.1 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) year to year, driven by the entry-level portfolio and cloud-enabled offerings.
Within Systems, total strategic imperatives revenue of $0.7 billion grew 28 percent as reported (24 percent adjusted for currency) year to year in the first quarter of 2018.
Global Financing pre-tax income increased 21.3 percent to $377 million in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to higher gross profit of $59 million and a decrease in total expenses of $7 million.
Total pre-tax retirement-related plan cost increased by $63 million compared to the first quarter of 2017, primarily driven by lower expected return on plan assets ($48 million) and an increase in recognized actuarial losses ($42 million); partially offset by lower interest costs ($40 million).
Non-operating costs of $402 million in the first quarter of 2018 increased $55 million year to year, driven primarily by lower expected return on plan assets ($48 million), an increase in recognized actuarial losses ($42 million), partially offset by lower interest costs ($40 million).
· A decrease of $694 million in long-term financing receivables ($810 million adjusted for currency) reflecting seasonal reductions from higher year-end balances.
Total equity increased by $565 million from December 31, 2017 primarily due to increases from net income ($1,679 million), adoption of the new revenue standard ($524 million) and retirement-related plans ($537 million); partially offset by decreases from dividends ($1,382 million) and gross common share repurchases ($827 million).
The company expects 2018 pre-tax retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $3.2 billion, an increase of approximately $300 million compared to 2017.
Non-operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.7 billion, an increase of approximately $300 million compared to 2017, driven by lower income from expected return on assets and a year-to-year impact due to the pension obligation adjustment resulting from the successful resolution of the UK pension litigation matter in 2017.
On an income from continuing operations before income tax basis, these translation impacts offset by the net impact of hedging activities resulted in a theoretical maximum (assuming no pricing or sourcing actions) increase of approximately $70 million in the first three months of 2018 on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $90 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company defines free cash flow as net cash from operating activities less the change in Global Financing receivables and net capital expenditures, including the investment in software.
In the first three months of 2018, the company continued to focus its cash utilization on returning value to shareholders including $1.4 billion in dividends and $0.8 billion in gross common stock repurchases (5.0 million shares).


part2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds and Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities 


