item1.txt
The company will adopt the guidance on January 1, 2019 on a prospective basis, and does not expect the guidance to have a material impact on the consolidated financial results.
The company will make a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
The company continues to evaluate the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
From a lessor perspective, due to changes in lease termination guidance, when equipment is returned to the company prior to the end of the lease term, the carrying amounts of lease receivables, which remain outstanding relating to that equipment and still expected to be collected, will be reclassified to loan receivables.
Additionally, the company does not expect the removal of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test to have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2018, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
In January 2017, the company had one transaction that generated a $582 million benefit to income tax expense, income from continuing operations and net income and a benefit to both basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.62 per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, control of a promised product or service transfers to a client, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring those products or services.
In these types of arrangements, revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client and the vendor, and gross when the company is the principal for the transaction.
To the extent the company grants the customer the option to acquire additional products or services in one of these arrangements, the company accounts for the option as a distinct performance obligation in the contract only if the option provides a material right to the customer that it would not receive without entering into the contract (e.g., a discount incremental to the range of discounts typically given for the product or service), in which case the client in effect pays in advance for the option to purchase future products or services.
The company recognizes revenue when those future products or services are transferred or when the option expires.
In services arrangements, the company typically satisfies the performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time.
Revenue related to maintenance and support services and extended warranty is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of performance because the company is standing ready to provide services.
In some services contracts, the company bills the client prior to recognizing revenue from performing the services.
When the company performs services prior to billing the client in design and build contracts, the right to consideration is typically subject to milestone completion or client acceptance and the unbilled accounts receivable is classified as a contract asset.
Revenue from hardware sales is recognized when control has transferred to the customer which typically occurs when the hardware has been shipped to the client, risk of loss has transferred to the client and the company has a present right to payment for the hardware.
Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the client, if the software license is distinct from the post-contract support offered by the company.
Prior to the adoption of the new revenue standard, the company recognized revenue for these software licenses at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement.
Revenue from post-contract support is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis because the company is providing a service of standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed, and is providing unspecified software upgrades on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is initially recorded as deferred income and subsequently recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery period because the company is providing a service of standing ready to provide services over such term.
The company classifies the right to consideration in exchange for products or services transferred to a client as either a receivable or a contract asset.
The majority of the company’s contract assets represent unbilled amounts related to design and build services contracts when the cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition is utilized, revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the client, and the right to consideration is subject to milestone completion or client acceptance.
At January 1, 2018 and September 30, 2018 contract assets of $557 million and $510 million, respectively, are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The remaining performance obligation (RPO) disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be recognized as of the end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the company expects to recognize these amounts in revenue.
For the three and nine months ending September 30, 2018, revenue was reduced by $25 million and $50 million, respectively, for performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods mainly due to changes in estimates on percentage-of-completion based contracts.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended September 30, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at July 1, 2018 was $3.8 billion and primarily relates to services and software.
The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at January 1, 2018 was $8.0 billion and primarily relates to services and software.
In accordance with the modified retrospective method transition requirements, the company will present the financial statement line items impacted and adjusted to compare to presentation under the prior GAAP for each of the interim and annual periods during the first year of adoption of the new revenue standard.
Effective January 1, 2018, the company adopted the new FASB guidance on recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments using the cumulative catch-up transition method.
Under the new standard, the company measures equity investments at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The following tables present the company’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
For other long-term debt for which a quoted market price is not available, an expected present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities is used to estimate fair value.
The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments under these collateralized arrangements that were in a liability position at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $120 million and $126 million, respectively, for which no collateral was posted at either date.
The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in asset positions at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $694 million and $942 million, respectively.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net exposure related to derivative assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $398 million and $572 million, respectively.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net position related to derivative liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $130 million and $160 million, respectively.
In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the company does not offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments.
The company may employ derivative instruments to hedge the volatility in stockholders’ equity resulting from changes in currency exchange rates of significant foreign subsidiaries of the company with respect to the U.S. dollar.
Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company may utilize derivatives to offset the changes in the fair value of the de-designated instruments from the date of de-designation until maturity.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, in connection with cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated borrowings, the company recorded net gains of $141 million and net gains of $42 million (before taxes), respectively, in AOCI.
The company estimates that $202 million (before taxes) of deferred net gains on derivatives in AOCI at September 30, 2018, will be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying exposure.
In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company’s nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities.
Typically, these obligations arise in the context of contracts entered into by the company, under which the company customarily agrees to hold the party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations and covenants related to such matters as title to the assets sold, certain intellectual property (IP) rights, specified environmental matters, third-party performance of nonfinancial contractual obligations and certain income taxes.
As a result of the proposed transaction, the company expects the major rating agencies to downgrade IBM and IBM Credit LLC long-term debt securities by one rating.


item2.txt
Total consolidated revenue decreased 2.1 percent as reported but was flat adjusted for currency in the third quarter, with continued growth in offerings in hybrid cloud, security, digital, analytics and AI.
Income from continuing operations of $2.7 billion decreased 1.3 percent and the net income margin was 14.4 percent, an increase from 14.2 percent in the third quarter of 2017.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $3.6 billion increased 0.5 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 0.5 points to 19.2 percent.
Total consolidated revenue increased 2.2 percent year to year as reported and 0.4 percent adjusted for currency in the first nine months of 2018.
In the first nine months of 2018, the company’s strategic imperatives revenue increased 12 percent year to year as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency.
Total cloud revenue in the first nine months of 2018 of $13.5 billion increased 17 percent year to year as reported and 15 percent adjusted for currency, with as-a-Service revenue up 24 percent (22 percent adjusted for currency).
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $8.7 billion increased 0.7 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 0.2 points to 15.1 percent.
Cognitive Solutions revenue of $4,148 million decreased 5.7 percent as reported and 5 percent adjusted for currency in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year, with declines in Solutions Software and Transaction Processing Software.
For the first nine months of the year, Cognitive Solutions revenue of $13,027 million was flat as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency, with growth in Solutions Software as reported, but declined adjusted for currency.
In the third quarter, Solutions Software revenue of $2,910 million decreased 4.0 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency.
In the third quarter, pre-tax income of $1,629 million decreased 0.9 percent compared to the prior year with a pre-tax margin improvement of 1.3 points to 34.0 percent.
For the first nine months of the year, pre-tax income of $4,718 million increased 4.3 percent compared to the prior year with a pre-tax margin improvement of 1.0 points to 31.1 percent.
Global Business Services revenue of $4,130 million increased 0.9 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year.
For the first nine months of the year, Global Business Services revenue of $12,495 million increased 2.4 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency.
In the third quarter, Consulting revenue of $1,900 million increased 5.4 percent as reported and 7 percent adjusted for currency, led by growth in offerings within Digital Strategy, iX and Cognitive Process Transformation.
Global Process Services (GPS) revenue of $314 million was flat as reported and increased 2 percent adjusted for currency.
Application Management revenue of $1,915 million decreased 3.1 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency with decline in traditional enterprise application managed services partially offset by growth in strategic offerings, such as Cloud Migration Factory.
Technical Support Services (TSS) third-quarter revenue of $1,707 million decreased 5.2 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency.
In the third-quarter 2018, Integration Software revenue of $990 million was flat as reported and grew 1 percent adjusted for currency driven by offerings that assist clients with the modernization, automation and integration of their applications within a hybrid cloud environment, including strong adoption of IBM Cloud Private.
Systems revenue of $1,736 million increased 0.9 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency) in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year.
Systems Hardware revenue of $1,339 million grew 3.0 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) driven by continued adoption of z14 and double-digit growth in Power Systems, offset by a decline in Storage Systems, as reported and adjusted for currency.
Operating Systems Software revenue of $397 million decreased 5.6 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year.
For the first nine months of 2018, Systems revenue of $5,412 million increased 11.3 percent as reported (10 percent adjusted for currency) with strong growth in Systems Hardware, driven by z14 which continues to track ahead of prior cycles and Power Systems, partially offset by declines in Storage Systems and Operating Systems Software.
Third-quarter Systems strategic imperatives revenue of $0.9 billion grew 5 percent year to year both as reported and adjusted for currency.
For the first nine months of the year, Systems strategic imperatives revenue of $2.9 billion increased 29 percent as reported (28 percent adjusted for currency), primarily due to the strong acceptance of the z14.
In the third quarter of 2018, pre-tax income of $209 million declined 37.9 percent and pre-tax margin decreased 6.4 points year to year to 10.9 percent, driven primarily by a lower level of IP income and continuing investment to drive innovation across the portfolio.
For the first nine months of the year, pre-tax income of $352 million increased $131 million and pre-tax margin increased 1.8 points year to year to 5.9 percent, primarily due to the IBM Z product cycle, partially offset by the first-quarter actions taken to improve the systems cost structure over the longer term.
In the third quarter of 2018, Global Financing total revenue of $726 million increased 4.0 percent compared to the prior year.
External revenue decreased 9.0 percent as reported (7 percent adjusted for currency), due to a decrease in used equipment sales (down 41.5 percent to $82 million), partially offset by an increase in financing (up 7.0 percent to $306 million).
Global Financing pre-tax income increased 26.9 percent to $308 million in the third quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to higher gross profit of $58 million and a decrease in expense of $7 million.
In the third quarter, total revenue of $18,756 million decreased 2.1 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency compared to the prior year.
Operating (non-GAAP) other (income) and expense was income of $219 million in the first nine months of 2018, a decrease of 2.8 percent year to year.
In the third quarter of 2018, total pre-tax retirement-related plan cost increased by $101 million compared to the third quarter of 2017, primarily driven by lower expected return on plan assets ($89 million) and an increase in other costs ($90 million) driven by a pension obligation adjustment recorded in the prior year related to the UK pension litigation; partially offset by lower interest costs ($69 million).
For the first nine months of 2018, operating retirement-related costs were $1,115 million, a decrease of $13 million compared to the prior year and non-operating costs were $1,185 million increasing $216 million in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the prior year driven primarily by the same factors as above.
In the first nine months of 2018, the company delivered revenue growth, as reported and adjusted for currency, an improving gross margin trajectory which was flat in the third quarter compared to the prior year (GAAP and 
Non-operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, an increase of approximately $200 million compared to 2017, driven by lower income from expected return on assets and a year-to-year impact due to the pension obligation adjustment resulting from the successful resolution of the UK pension litigation matter in 2017.


