item1.txt
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance also made some changes to lessor accounting, including elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2019, using the transition option whereby prior comparative periods were not retrospectively presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The company made a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
As a lessee, at adoption, the company recognized operating and financing right-of-use (ROU) assets of $4.8 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, and operating and financing lease liabilities of $5.1 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively.
From a lessor perspective, the changes in lease termination guidance and removal of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
The guidance required certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
Effective January 1, 2018, the company adopted the new FASB guidance on recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments using the cumulative catch-up transition method.
Since adoption, the company measures equity investments at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The following tables present the company’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
Accounts payable, other accrued expenses and short-term debt (excluding the current portion of long-term debt and including short-term finance lease liabilities) are financial liabilities with carrying values that approximate fair value.
For other long-term debt (including long-term finance lease liabilities) for which a quoted market price is not available, an expected present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities is used to estimate fair value.
The carrying amount of long-term debt was $39,727 million and $35,605 million, and the estimated fair value was $41,675 million and $36,599 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
These arrangements require the company to hold or post collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury securities) when the derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds.
The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in asset positions at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $694 million and $731 million, respectively.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the net exposure related to derivative assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $321 million and $395 million, respectively.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the net position related to derivative liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $338 million and $116 million, respectively.
In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the company does not offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments.
The company restricts the use of cash collateral received to rehypothecation, and therefore reports it in restricted cash in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The company rehypothecated $14 million of cash collateral received at March 31, 2019 and no amount was rehypothecated at December 31, 2018.
These instruments, designated as net investment hedges, expose the company to liquidity risk as the derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity which is not offset by a cash flow from the translation of the underlying hedged equity.
Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company may utilize derivatives to offset the changes in the fair value of the de-designated instruments from the date of de-designation until maturity.
To manage these mismatches and to reduce overall interest cost, the company may use interest-rate swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt issuances into variable-rate debt (i.e., fair value hedges) and to convert specific variable-rate debt issuances into fixed-rate debt (i.e., cash flow hedges).
The company did not have any cash flow hedges relating to this program outstanding at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
In connection with cash flow hedges of forecasted interest payments related to the company’s borrowings, the company recorded net losses of $206 million and net losses of $35 million (before taxes) at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, in AOCI.
The company estimates that $11 million (before taxes) of the deferred net losses on derivatives in AOCI at March 31, 2019 will be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, in connection with cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated borrowings, the company recorded net losses of $21 million and net gains of $75 million (before taxes), respectively, in AOCI.
The company estimates that $346 million (before taxes) of deferred net gains on derivatives in AOCI at March 31, 2019 will be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying exposure.
Operating leases are included in operating right-of-use assets — net, current operating lease liabilities and operating lease liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Finance leases are included in property, plant and equipment, short-term debt and long-term debt in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
At March 31, 2019, the total amount of ROU assets and lease liabilities for finance leases recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in property, plant and equipment, short-term debt and long-term debt was $149 million, $13 million, and $144 million, respectively.
For operating leases, the amortization of the ROU asset and the interest expense on the lease liability are not separately recorded; rather, the lease cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term as a single-line item in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, unless the ROU asset is impaired.
The company has elected to not recognize leases with a lease term of less than 12 months in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, including those acquired in a business combination, and lease costs for those short-term leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Prior to the adoption of the new lease guidance on January 1, 2019, ROU assets and lease liabilities for operating leases were not recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The difference between the company’s total lease commitments as reported at December 31, 2018 compared to the January 1, 2019 ROU asset balance in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is primarily due to the required use of a discount factor (imputed interest) under the new lease guidance and certain amounts that are not included in the ROU asset under the new lease guidance (e.g., tenant incentives and vacant space).
Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate (e.g., property taxes), that are paid directly by the company and are reimbursed by the client, are recorded as revenue, along with the related cost, in the period in which collection of these payments is probable.
With respect to a client purchase of leased assets, the lease agreement would include an option to purchase the equipment at either a stated price or at the then-current fair market value of the equipment at the end of the lease.
When lease arrangements include multiple performance obligations, the company allocates the consideration in the contract between the lease components and the non-lease components on a relative standalone selling price basis.
For a sales-type lease, the net investment in the lease is measured at commencement date as the sum of the lease receivable, the estimated guaranteed and unguaranteed residual value of the equipment less unearned income and allowance for credit losses.
At March 31, 2019, the unguaranteed residual value of sales-type and direct financing leases was $566 million.
For further information on the company’s net investment in leases, including guaranteed and unguaranteed residual values, refer to note 6, “Financing Receivables.” Any selling profit or loss arising from a sales-type lease is recorded at lease commencement.
Selling profit or loss is presented on a gross basis when the company enters into a lease to realize value from a product that it would otherwise sell in its ordinary course of business, whereas in transactions where the company enters into a lease for the purpose of generating revenue by providing financing, the selling profit or loss is presented on a net basis.
The company recognizes finance income over the term of a sales-type lease on the net investment in the lease and any variable lease payments, which are not included in the net investment in the lease.
For sales-type and direct financing leases, this reduction lowers the recorded net investment and is recognized as a loss charged to finance income in the period in which the estimate is changed, as well as an adjustment to unearned income to reduce future-period financing activities.
Equipment provided to clients under an operating lease is carried at cost within property, plant and equipment in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and depreciated over the lease term using the straight-line method, generally ranging from one to six years.
Both interest income recognized and interest income recognized on a cash basis on impaired leases and loans were immaterial for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
Provisions for credit losses recorded for lease receivables and loan receivables were $14 million and $2 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2018.


item2.txt
In the first quarter of 2019, the company reported $18.2 billion in revenue, $1.6 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.0 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.78 as reported and $2.25 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
Total cloud revenue of $4.5 billion in the first quarter of 2019 grew 7 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue was $11.7 billion, an increase of 10 percent as reported and 15 percent adjusted for currency.
The year-to-year performance was driven by a lower level of workforce rebalancing charges (7 points), the impact of currency (5 points) and lower non-operating retirement-related costs (4 points), partially offset by a decrease in intellectual property (IP) income (3 points).
Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) decreased 10.8 percent year to year, driven primarily by the same factors excluding the non-operating retirement-related costs.
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 15.4 percent, an increase of 62.9 points compared to the first quarter of 2018.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.2 billion grew 28.3 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 3.2 points to 12.3 percent.
The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 10.0 percent, an increase of 40.6 points compared to the first quarter of 2018.
Pre-tax income of $1,767 million increased 5.2 percent in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
The pre-tax margin increased 2.3 points to 30.1 percent, driven by a lower level of workforce rebalancing charges in the current year, partially offset by lower IP income and continued investment in key strategic areas.
Global Business Services revenue of $4,119 million was flat as reported, but increased 4 percent adjusted for currency in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
Global Process Services revenue of $247 million was flat as reported, but grew 5 percent adjusted for currency, driven by strong performance in risk and compliance.
Application Management revenue of $1,908 million declined 4.7 percent as reported, but was flat adjusted for currency.
Global Technology Services revenue of $6,875 million declined 7.4 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
Technology Support Services revenue of $1,665 million decreased 6.5 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency) due primarily to hardware cycle dynamics.
Systems revenue of $1,328 million decreased 11.4 percent as reported (9 percent adjusted for currency) in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
Operating Systems Software revenue of $414 million grew 1.8 percent as reported (5 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year.
In the first quarter, Global Financing total revenue of $706 million declined 15.4 percent compared to the prior year.
External revenue was flat as reported and increased 4 percent adjusted for currency due to an increase in financing (increased 7.4 percent to $336 million), partially offset by a decrease in used equipment sales (down 24.2 percent to $70 million).
Internal revenue decreased 30.0 percent, driven by a decrease in used equipment sales (down 42.2 percent to $188 million), partially offset by an increase in financing (up 8.1 percent to $113 million).
In the first quarter, total revenue of $18,182 million decreased 4.7 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year.
Americas revenue of $8,493 million decreased 2.5 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency.
EMEA revenue of $5,727 million decreased 7.3 percent as reported, but was flat adjusted for currency.
Asia Pacific revenue of $3,961 million decreased 5.4 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency.
Overall interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) for the first quarter of 2019 was $389 million, an increase of $42 million versus the comparable prior-year period, primarily driven by a higher average debt balance and higher average interest rates.
Total pre-tax retirement-related plan cost decreased by $297 million compared to the first quarter of 2018, primarily driven by a decrease in recognized actuarial losses ($289 million), primarily due to the change in the amortization period in the U.S. Qualified Personal Pension Plan, higher expected return on plan assets ($26 million) and a decrease in defined contribution plans cost ($20 million), partially offset by higher interest costs ($36 million).
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 15.4 percent, an increase of 62.9 points compared to the first quarter of 2018.
The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 10.0 percent, an increase of 40.6 points compared to the first quarter of 2018.
Cash, restricted cash and marketable securities at quarter end were $18,144 million compared to $12,222 million at December 31, 2018, with a corresponding increase in debt as the company begins to prepare for the pending Red Hat acquisition.
· A decline in receivables of $2,619 million ($2,561 million adjusted for currency) primarily driven by declines in financing receivables of $2,101 million as a result of collections of higher year-end balances.
· A decrease in long-term financing receivables of $787 million ($773 million adjusted for currency) as a result of seasonal reductions of higher year-end balances.
· An increase in net cash sourced from debt transactions of $4,945 million primarily driven by a higher level of issuances and a lower level of maturities in the current year.
At mid-April 2019 spot rates, the company expects a currency headwind of approximately 2.5 points to second quarter 2019 revenue growth and a headwind of approximately 2.0 points to full year 2019 revenue growth.
The company expects revenue dynamics from the first quarter to the second quarter of 2019 to be similar to the last two years, which is a sequential increase of approximately $900 million to $1 billion.
Beginning in the second quarter of 2019 and continuing throughout the year, IBM’s Global Financing business will wind down the portion of its commercial financing operations, which provides short-term working capital solutions for OEM information technology suppliers, distributors and resellers.
Non-operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $0.6 billion, a decrease of approximately $1 billion compared to 2018, primarily driven by lower actuarial loss amortization resulting from the change in amortization period for the U.S. plan.
The company translates revenue, cost and expense in its non-U.S. operations at current exchange rates in the reported period.
On an income from continuing operations before income tax basis, these translation impacts offset by the net impact of hedging activities resulted in a theoretical maximum (assuming no pricing or sourcing actions) increase of approximately $60 million in the first three months of 2019 on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $50 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company defines free cash flow as net cash from operating activities less the change in Global Financing receivables and net capital expenditures, including the investment in software.
In the first quarter, the company continued to focus its cash utilization on returning value to shareholders including $1.4 billion in dividends and $0.9 billion in gross common stock repurchases (6.9 million shares).


part2.txt
The consulting arrangement is set forth in the Letter Agreement attached as Exhibit 10.1.


