PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION
 Item 1:
Legal Proceedings
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen, in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
 Item 1A:
Risk Factors
The implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products may have a material impact on our business.
Our business operations and supply chain are global and may be disrupted by the implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products.
On July 6, 2018, the United States Trade Representative imposed a 25% tariff on a list of products, including certain Teradyne products that are made in China and imported into the United States.
We intend to submit requests for exclusion of our products from the tariff, but there is no assurance that our requests will be approved.
We have implemented operational changes that will mitigate the impact of the 25% tariff on the import of our impacted products into the United States.
As a result, we do not expect that the tariff will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
On July 10, 2018, the United States Trade Representative announced a proposed 10% tariff on many additional products made in China and imported into the United States.
It is uncertain whether this proposed tariff will be implemented and, if implemented, as to the products that will be covered.
At this time, we do not expect that this proposed 10% tariff will significantly impact any Teradyne products and thus the proposed tariff should not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
On June 29, 2018, the United States Commerce Department announced that it has commenced a review of new export controls focusing on emerging technologies.
While there is uncertainty as to whether any new export controls will be implemented and, if implemented, as to the products that will be covered, new export controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
In addition to any actions taken by the United States, any tariffs or other trade restrictions implemented by China could disrupt our business operations, sales and supply chain and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 Item 2:
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we repurchased 8.8 million shares of common stock for $360.8 million at an average price of $40.82 per share.
Table of Contents
In December 2016, our Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization, which commenced on January 1, 2017.
During the six months ended July 2, 2017, we repurchased 3.0 million shares of common stock for $94.3 million at an average price of $31.77 per share.
Includes 3,135 shares at an average price of $38.87 withheld from employees for the payment of taxes.
We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.
 Item 4:
Mine Safety Disclosures
Not Applicable
 Item 6:
Exhibits
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
