 Item 2: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q which are not historical facts, so called “forward-looking statements,” are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including those detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
See also Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which reflect management’s analysis only as of the date hereof.
We assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law.
Overview
   •   semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems;
   •   industrial automation (“Industrial Automation”) products; and
   •   wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.
We have a customer base which includes integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”), outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers (“OSATs”), original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), wafer foundries, fabless companies that design, but contract with others for the manufacture of integrated circuits (“ICs”), developers of wireless devices and consumer electronics, manufacturers of circuit boards, automotive suppliers, wireless product manufacturers, storage device manufacturers, aerospace and military contractors, and distributors that sell collaborative robots.
The market for our test products is concentrated with a limited number of significant customers accounting for a substantial portion of the purchases of test equipment.
One customer drives significant demand for our products both through direct sales and sales to the customer’s supply partners.
We expect that sales of our test products will continue to be concentrated with a limited number of significant customers for the foreseeable future.
The sales of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers who are subject to cyclical trends in the demand for their products.
These cyclical periods have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our business because our customers often delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and to demand fluctuations in the semiconductor and electronics industries.
Historically, these demand fluctuations have resulted in significant variations in our results of operations.
During the first quarter of 2018, demand outlook for mobile device test capacity in 2018 declined sharply for our Semiconductor Test business.
As a result, we reduced our revenue outlook for 2018 to reflect the demand decline.
Table of Contents
 workers to improve quality, increase manufacturing efficiency and decrease manufacturing costs.
The acquisition of Universal Robots provides a growth engine to our business and complements our existing System Test and Wireless Test segments.
The total purchase price for Universal Robots was approximately $315 million, which included cash paid of approximately $284 million and $32 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of revenue and earnings targets through 2018.
The contingent consideration related to revenue for the period from July 1, 2015 to December 31, 2017 in the amount of $24.6 million was paid in March 2018.
The remaining maximum contingent consideration that could be paid in 2019 is $25 million.
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total preliminary purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare; utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $148 million net of cash acquired, and up to an additional approximately $124 million payable upon the achievement of certain revenue and profit performance targets through 2020.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR and Energid will be included in our Industrial Automation segment.
We believe our recent acquisitions have enhanced our opportunities for growth.
We intend to continue to invest in our business, grow market share in our markets and expand further our addressable markets while tightly managing our costs.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
We have identified the policies which are critical to understanding our business and our results of operations.
There have been no significant changes during the three months ended April 1, 2018 to the items disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, except as noted below.
 Preparation of Financial Statements and Use of Estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.
 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Table of Contents
In accordance with ASC 606, we recognize revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
Our determination of revenue is dependent upon a five step process outlined below.
We account for a contract with a customer when there is written approval, the contract is committed, the rights of the parties, including payment terms, are identified, the contract has commercial substance and consideration is probable of collection.
We periodically enter into contracts with its customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with extended warranty obligations.
We determine performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
In order to be distinct the product or service must perform either on its own or with readily available resources and must be separate within the context of the contract.
We considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
We do not have variable consideration which could impact the stated purchase price agreed to by us and the customer.
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation.
We use standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
If standalone transactions are not available, we will estimate the standalone selling price through market assessments or cost plus a reasonable margin analysis.
Any discounts from standalone selling price are spread over each performance obligation.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, we first determine if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, we recognize revenue as the good or service is delivered.
We use input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer.
For transactions which do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, we will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
We have concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Typically acceptance of our products and services is a formality as we deliver similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications.
In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, we will wait for customer acceptance before recognizing revenue.
Retirement Benefits
Table of Contents
 expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations.
Following the adoption of this guidance, we continue to record the service cost component in the same line item as other employee compensation costs and the non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses are reported within other (income) expense, net.
The retrospective adoption of this standard increased the first quarter of 2017 income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of the non-service component of pension expense and decreased other (income) expense, net by the same amount with zero impact to net income.
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
Table of Contents
SELECTED RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
Results of Operations
First Quarter 2018 Compared to First Quarter 2017
Revenues
Table of Contents
The increase in Semiconductor Test revenues of $17.8 million, or 5.0%, was driven primarily by increased sales in the flash memory test segment, partially offset by a decrease in image sensor and microcontroller sales.
The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $12.5 million, or 34.4%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms.
The increase in System Test revenues of $3.2 million, or 8.0%, was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of system level testers.
The decrease in Wireless Test revenues of $2.8 million, or 11.1%, was primarily due to lower demand for connectivity and cellular test systems.
 (1) Revenues attributable to a country are based on location of customer site.
Gross Profit
Gross profit as a percent of revenue decreased by 2.6 points, as a result of a decrease related to product mix primarily in Semiconductor Test, partially offset by an increase due to higher sales primarily in Semiconductor Test and Industrial Automation.
We assess the carrying value of our inventory on a quarterly basis by estimating future demand and comparing that demand against on-hand and on-order inventory positions.
Forecasted revenue information is obtained from sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future revenue demand.
This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory.
Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved.
Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.
Table of Contents
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $3.5 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels.
Of the $3.5 million of total excess and obsolete provisions, $2.2 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.8 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.3 million was related to System Test, and $0.2 million was related to Industrial Automation.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, we recorded an inventory provision of $2.7 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels.
Of the $2.7 million of total excess and obsolete provisions, $1.3 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.9 million was related to System Test, and $0.5 million was related to Wireless Test.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, we scrapped $0.3 million and $1.8 million of inventory, respectively.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, we sold $2.2 million and $1.1 million of previously written-down or written-off inventory, respectively.
As of April 1, 2018, we had inventory related reserves for inventory which had been written-down or written-off totaling $103.4 million.
We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.
Selling and Administrative
The increase of $5.7 million in selling and administrative expenses was due primarily to higher spending in Industrial Automation.
Engineering and Development
The decrease of $1.6 million in engineering and development expenses was primarily due to lower spending in Storage Test and Semiconductor Test, partially offset by higher spending in Industrial Automation.
Acquired Intangible Assets Amortization
Table of Contents
Acquired intangible assets amortization expense decreased primarily in the Industrial Automation segment due to intangible assets that became fully amortized in June 2017, partially offset by increased amortization expense due to the Energid acquisition.
Restructuring and Other
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we recorded a $5.0 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, partially offset by $3.9 million recorded for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, and $0.8 million of acquisition related expenses.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, we recorded $2.5 million of restructuring and other charges of which $1.3 million was for a lease impairment of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA, which was terminated in September 2017, $0.6 million was for employee severance charges and $0.6 million for the increase in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.
Interest and Other
Interest income increased by $2.5 million due primarily to higher cash and marketable securities balances during the quarter and higher interest rates in 2018.
Interest expense increased by $1.5 million due primarily to realized losses on sales of marketable securities.
Other (income) expense, net included net foreign exchange losses and non-service components of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs.
Income Before Income Taxes
The decrease in income before income taxes in Semiconductor Test was driven primarily by lower gross margin due to product mix.
The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of system level testers.
The increase in income before income taxes in Industrial Automation was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms.
The decrease in income before income taxes in Wireless Test was primarily due to lower demand for connectivity and cellular test systems.
Table of Contents
Income Taxes
The effective tax rate for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 was 9.2% and 7.4%, respectively.
The increase in the effective tax rate from the three months ended April 2, 2017 to the three months ended April 1, 2018 primarily resulted from a projected shift in the geographic distribution of income which increased income subject to taxation in the U.S. relative to lower tax rate jurisdictions and a reduction in discrete tax benefits recognized.
These increases were partially offset by the benefit of the reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and the U.S. foreign derived intangible income deduction.
Contractual Obligations
 (1) Represents our estimate of a provisional tax amount for the transition tax liability associated with our accumulated foreign earnings as a result of the enactment of the Tax Reform Act on December 22, 2017.
 (2) Included in other long-term liabilities are liabilities for customer advances, extended warranty, uncertain tax positions, deferred tax liabilities and other obligations.
For certain long-term obligations, we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to these obligations and therefore we included these amounts in the column marked “Other.”
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances decreased by $316.1 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 to $1,588 million.
Operating activities during the three months ended April 1, 2018 used cash of $81.9 million.
Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $212.6 million.
This was due to a $162.4 million increase in operating assets and a $50.2 million decrease in operating liabilities.
The increase in operating assets was primarily due to a $140.7 million increase in accounts receivable due to an increase in shipments during the last month of the quarter and the impact of the new revenue recognition standard, a $21.0 million increase in inventories, and a $0.7 million increase in prepayments and other assets.
The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $56.3 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $12.1 million decrease in income taxes, a $7.5 million decrease in other accrued liabilities, and $1.0 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $17.1 million increase in accounts payable and a $9.6 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments.
Table of Contents
Investing activities during the three months ended April 1, 2018 provided cash of $462.9 million, due to $800.7 million and $212.7 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, respectively, partially offset by $490.3 million used for purchases of marketable securities, $34.8 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment and $25.4 million used for the acquisition of Energid.
Financing activities during the three months ended April 1, 2018 used cash of $174.4 million, due to $134.3 million used for the repurchase of 2.9 million shares of common stock at an average price of $45.69 per share, $19.6 million used for payment related to net settlement of employee stock compensation awards, $17.6 million used for dividend payments, and $13.6 million used for a payment related to Universal Robots acquisition contingent consideration, partially offset by $10.7 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase and stock option plans.
Operating activities during the three months ended April 2, 2017 used cash of $61.1 million.
Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $182.4 million.
This was due to a $184.9 million increase in operating assets and a $2.5 million increase in operating liabilities.
The increase in operating assets was primarily due to a $123.8 million increase in accounts receivable due to the delivery profile of first quarter shipments and a $62.2 million increase in inventories to support increased shipments in the second quarter.
The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $31.0 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $3.3 million decrease in deferred revenue and customer advance payments, a $0.9 million decrease in other accrued liabilities and $0.9 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $24.3 million increase in accounts payable and a $14.3 million increase in income taxes.
Investing activities during the three months ended April 2, 2017 provided cash of $126.4 million, due to $213.6 million and $88.2 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, respectively, partially offset by $153.3 used for purchases of marketable securities and $22.1 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Financing activities during the three months ended April 2, 2017 used cash of $50.0 million, due to $37.7 million used for the repurchase of 1.3 million shares of common stock at an average price of $29.38 per share, $14.0 million used for dividend payments, $12.3 million used for payment related to net settlement of employee stock compensation awards and $1.1 million used for a payment related to AIT contingent consideration, partially offset by $15.1 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase and stock option plans.
In January 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share that was paid on March 23, 2018 to shareholders of record as of February 23, 2018. Dividend payments for the three months ended April 1, 2018 were $17.6 million.
In January 2017, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share that was paid on March 20, 2017 to shareholders of record as of February 24, 2017. Dividend payments for the three months ended April 2, 2017 were $14.0 million.
In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we repurchased 2.9 million shares of common stock for $134.3 million at an average price of $45.69 per share.
In December 2016, our Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization which commenced on January 1, 2017.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, we repurchased 1.3 million shares of common stock for $37.7 million at an average price of $29.38 per share.
Table of Contents
While we declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, we may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future.
Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors which will consider, among other things, our earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.
We believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance will be sufficient to pay our quarterly dividend, execute our authorized share repurchase program and meet our working capital and expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months.
Inflation has not had a significant long-term impact on earnings.
Equity Compensation Plans
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” The guidance in this ASU supersedes the lease recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 840, “Leases.” The new standard establishes a right- of-use (“ROU”) model that requires a lessee to record an ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statements of operations.
The new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 with early adoption permitted.
A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on our financial position and results of operations.
 Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we repurchased 2.9 million shares of common stock for $134.3 million at an average price of $45.69 per share.
In December 2016, our Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization which commenced on January 1, 2017.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, we repurchased 1.3 million shares of common stock for $37.7 million at an average price of $29.38 per share.
 (1) Includes 0.4 million shares at an average price of $46.59 withheld from employees for the payment of taxes.
Table of Contents
We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.
 Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures
Not Applicable
 Item 6: Exhibits
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
