Item 3:  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks   

For “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” affecting Teradyne, see Part 2 Item 7a, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks,” in our Annual Report on Form 

10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018.
There were no material changes in our exposure to market risk from those set forth in our Annual Report on Form 

10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
In addition to market risks described in our Annual Report on Form 

10-K, we have an equity price risk related to the fair value of our convertible senior unsecured notes issued in December 2016.
In December 2016, Teradyne issued $460 million aggregate principal amount of 1.25% convertible senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) due December 15, 2023.
As of June 30, 2019, the Notes had a fair value of $747.2 million.
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of hypothetical 10% changes of Teradyne’s stock price as of the end of the second quarter of 2019 and the estimated impact on the fair value of the Notes.
The selected scenarios are not predictions of future events, but rather are intended to illustrate the effect such event may have on the fair value of the Notes.
The fair value of the Notes is subject to equity price risk due to the convertible feature.
The fair value of the Notes will generally increase as Teradyne’s common stock price increases and will generally decrease as the common stock price declines in value.
The change in stock price affects the fair value of the  


Table of Contents 



 Item 4:  

Controls and Procedures   

As of the end of the period covered by this report, our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 


15d-15(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act.
Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that material information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, including ensuring that such material information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Table of Contents 

PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION  

 Item 1:  

Legal Proceedings   

We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen, in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
Item 1A:  

Risk Factors   

In addition to other information set forth in this Form 


10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results.
The risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 

10-K remain applicable to our business.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 


Trade regulations and restrictions could impact our ability to sell products to and support certain customers, which may materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations.
We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons.
In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.
We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments.
We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities.
Compliance with these laws has not significantly limited our sales, but could significantly limit them in the future.
Changes in, and responses to, U.S. trade policy could reduce the competitiveness of our products and cause our sales to drop, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
The U.S. government from time to time has issued export restrictions that prohibit U.S. companies from exporting U.S. manufactured products, foreign manufactured products with more than 25% controlled U.S. content, as well as U.S. origin technology.
For example, the U.S. Department of Commerce has restricted the access of U.S. origin technologies to certain Chinese companies by adding those companies to the Entity List under U.S.
Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”).
On May 16, 2019, Huawei and 68 of its affiliates, including HiSilicon, were added to the U.S. Department of Commerce Entity List under the EAR.
This action by the U.S. Department of Commerce imposes new export licensing requirements on exports, 

re-exports, and 

in-country transfers of all U.S. regulated products, software and technology to the designated Huawei entities.
While most of our products are not subject to the EAR and therefore not affected by the Entity List restrictions, certain of our products are currently manufactured in the U.S. and thus subject to the Entity List restrictions.
Compliance with the Entity List restrictions has not significantly impacted our sales, but could limit sales in the future.
In addition, the prohibition on transfers of U.S. origin technology to Huawei could significantly limit our ability to service certain of our products sold to Huawei and our ability to engage in product development activities with Huawei and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Furthermore, Huawei’s inability to obtain products from other companies in its supply chain may adversely impact Huawei’s demand for our products.
Huawei or other foreign customers affected by future U.S. government sanctions or threats of sanctions may respond by developing their own solutions to replace our products or by adopting our foreign competitors’ solutions.
Also, our controls related to Entity List compliance could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities.
Even if such restrictions are lifted, any financial or other penalties or continuing export restrictions imposed on Huawei could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Table of Contents 

 Item 2:  

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds   

In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
We intend to repurchase $500 million in 2019.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we repurchased 6.5 million shares of common stock for $247.2 million at an average price of $38.20 per share.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we repurchased 8.8 million shares of common stock for $360.8 million at an average price of $40.82 per share.
The cumulative repurchases under the $1.5 billion stock repurchase program as of June 30, 2019 totaled 28.1 million shares of common stock for $1,070.7 million at an average price per share of $38.09.
Includes approximately three thousand shares at an average price of $44.36 withheld from employees for the payment of taxes.
We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.
