PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION
 Item 1: Legal Proceedings
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen, in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
 Item 1A: Risk Factors
Our business may suffer if we are impacted by the implementation of tariffs on our products.
Our business operations are international and may be disrupted by the implementation of tariffs on our products.
In March 2018, the United States Trade Representative announced proposed tariffs on a list of products manufactured in China.
While there is uncertainty as to whether the proposed tariffs will be implemented and, if they are implemented, as to the products that will be covered by the tariffs, the tariffs if implemented could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
In addition, tariffs implemented by China could disrupt our business operations or impact the sale of our products and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results or operations.
 Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we repurchased 2.9 million shares of common stock for $134.3 million at an average price of $45.69 per share.
In December 2016, our Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization which commenced on January 1, 2017.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, we repurchased 1.3 million shares of common stock for $37.7 million at an average price of $29.38 per share.
 (1) Includes 0.4 million shares at an average price of $46.59 withheld from employees for the payment of taxes.
Table of Contents
We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.
 Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures
Not Applicable
 Item 6: Exhibits
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
