Item 1:
Financial Statements
TERADYNE, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s
 Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the
 condensed
 consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
TERADYNE, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s
 Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed
 consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
TERADYNE, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s
Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed
consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
TERADYNE, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s
 Annual Report on Form
 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the
 condensed
 consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
TERADYNE, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s
Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed
consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
TERADYNE, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A.
THE COMPANY
   •
semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems;
   •
industrial automation (“Industrial Automation”) products;
   •
   •
wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.
B.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Presentation
The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
These interim financial statements are unaudited and reflect all normal recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair statement of such interim financial statements.
Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The December 31, 2018 condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form
10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Preparation of Financial Statements and Use of Estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.
Investment in Other Company
Leases
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”)
“Leases (Topic 842)” (“Topic 842”), which requires a lessee to record a
right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for operating leases with terms longer than twelve months.
Teradyne adopted this standard and the related amendments (collectively “ASC 842”) on January 1, 2019 and utilized the modified retrospective approach provided by ASU
Improvements,” that allowed for a cumulative effect adjustment in the period of adoption.
Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840).
Teradyne also utilized the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance which included the carry-forward of historical lease classification.
Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively.
Operating lease liabilities were calculated using the discount rate on January 1, 2019.
The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.
Table of Contents
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when Teradyne has the right to control the use of an identified asset.
Teradyne determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.
The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use by Teradyne.
As of September 29, 2019, Teradyne does not have material leases that have not yet commenced.
Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset.
The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
For leases commencing after January 1, 2019, the lease liability is measured at the present value of future lease payments, discounted using the discount rate for the lease at the commencement date.
As Teradyne is typically unable to determine the implicit rate, Teradyne uses an incremental borrowing rate based on the lease term and economic environment at commencement date.
Teradyne initially measures payments based on an index by using the applicable rate at lease commencement.
Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred.
The ROU asset is initially measured as the amount of lease liability, adjusted for any initial lease costs, prepaid lease payments, and reduced by any lease incentives.
Teradyne’s contracts often include
non-lease components such as common area maintenance.
Teradyne elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and
C. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
On January 26, 2017, the FASB issued ASU
one-step impairment test will be applied to goodwill at all reporting units, even those with zero or negative carrying amounts.
Entities will be required to disclose the amount of goodwill at reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts.
The revised guidance will be applied prospectively, and is effective in 2020.
Early adoption is permitted for any impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017.
Teradyne is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on its financial position, results of operations and statements of cash flows.
D. ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENT IN OTHER COMPANY
Acquisitions
Lemsys SA
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
Lemsys strengthens Teradyne’s position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications.
The Lemsys acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, the results have been included in Teradyne’s Semiconductor Test segment from the date of acquisition.
Teradyne’s final allocation of the purchase price was goodwill of $1.4 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $4.6 million with an average estimated useful life of 5.2 years, and $3.1 million of net tangible assets.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
Mobile Industrial Robots
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots Aps (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.
Table of Contents
The total purchase price of $197.8 million included $145.2 million of cash paid and $52.6 million of contingent consideration measured at fair value.
The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020.
The contingent consideration related to revenue for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 in the amount of $30.8 million was paid in March 2019.
The remaining maximum contingent consideration that could be paid is $81.0 million.
The MiR acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, the results have been included in Teradyne’s consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition.
MiR’s products will help expand the Industrial Automation segment, which is a key component of Teradyne’s growth strategy.
The allocation of the total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
The excess of the purchase price over the identifiable intangible assets and net tangible liabilities in the amount of $136.0 million was allocated to goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes.
MiR’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition.
Table of Contents
Pro forma results for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were adjusted to exclude $2.9 million of acquisition related costs, and $0.4 million of
non-recurring expense related to fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory.
Energid Technologies Corporation
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
The Energid acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million which is deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
Investment in Other Company
On June 3, 2019, Teradyne invested $15.0 million in RealWear, Inc. (“RealWear”).
RealWear, a private company, develops and sells advanced wearable technology including industrial, hands-free, head-mounted augmented reality devices that make the workplace safer and more productive.
Teradyne’s investment in RealWear aligns with its strategy of bringing the power of advanced automation to companies of all sizes to improve the productivity of their employees and the quality of their products and services.
The investment was recorded at cost and is evaluated for impairment or an indication of changes in fair value resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer on a quarterly basis.
At September 29, 2019
, the value of the investment was $15.0 million
, which was unchanged in the three months ended September 30, 2019
.
E. REVENUE
Revenue from Contracts with Customers” were $580.6 million and $1,635.5 million, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, Teradyne also recognized $1.5 million and $4.9 million, respectively, of revenues from leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers” were $564.5 million and $1,571.0 million, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $2.3 million and $10.2 million, respectively, of revenues from leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
Table of Contents
Disaggregation of Revenue
Table of Contents
Contract Balances
During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, Teradyne recognized $14.2 million and $47.6 million, respectively, that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balances.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne recognized $24.5 million and $70.9 million, respectively, that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balances.
This revenue primarily relates to
undelivered hardware
, extended warranties, training, application support, and post contract support.
Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation.
Teradyne expects to recognize 69% of the remaining performance obligation in the next 12 months, 26% in
1-3 years, and the remainder thereafter.
Accounts Receivable
Teradyne sells certain trade accounts receivables on a
non-recourse basis to third-party financial institutions pursuant to factoring agreements.
Teradyne accounts for these transactions as sales of receivables and presents cash proceeds
in operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Total trade accounts receivable sold under the factoring agreements were $113.4 million and $10.6 million for the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
Factoring fees for the sales of receivables
are recorded in interest expense and
are not material.
F. INVENTORIES
Inventory reserves at September 29, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $101.2 million and $100.8 million, respectively.
G. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Cash Equivalents
Teradyne considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents.
Table of Contents
Marketable Securities
Teradyne’s
available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2 and equity securities are classified as Level 1.
Contingent consideration is classified as Level 3.
The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors.
These pricing vendors utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities.
During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3 financial instruments.
Realized gains recorded in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 were $0.5 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
Realized losses recorded in the nine months ended September 29, 2019 were $0.2 million.
Realized gains recorded in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $0.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively.
Realized losses recorded in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $1.6 million.
Realized gains are included in interest income and realized losses are included in interest expense.
Unrealized gains on equity securities recorded in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 were $0.1 million and $3.8 million, respectively.
Unrealized losses on equity securities recorded in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 were $0.2 million.
Unrealized gains on equity securities recorded in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $1.0 million and $1.4 million, respectively.
Unrealized gains on equity securities are included in interest income and unrealized losses are included in interest expense.
Unrealized gains and losses on
available-for-sale debt securities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the balance sheet.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
As of September 29, 2019, the significant unobservable inputs used in the Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the MiR contingent consideration include forecasted revenues, revenue volatility, earnings before interest and taxes, and discount rate.
Increases or decreases in the inputs would result in a higher or lower fair value measurement.
As of September 29, 2019, the maximum amount of contingent consideration that could be paid in connection with the acquisition of MiR is $81.0 million.
The remaining
earn-out periods end on December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020.
The carrying value represents the bifurcated debt component only, while the fair value is based on quoted market prices for the convertible note, which includes the equity conversion features.
Table of Contents
The fair values of accounts receivable, net and accounts payable approximate the carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
The following table summarizes the composition of
The following table summarizes the composition of
Table of Contents
As of September 29, 2019, the fair market value of investments in
available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses totaled $60.7 million.
Of this value, $4.9 million had unrealized losses of $0.1 million for greater than one year and $55.8 million had unrealized losses of $0.1 million for less than one year.
As of December 31, 2018, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $192.0 million.
Of this value, $28.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.6 million greater than one year and $163.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.4 million for less than one year.
Teradyne reviews its investments to identify and evaluate investments that have an indication of possible impairment.
Based on this review, Teradyne determined that the unrealized losses related to these investments at September 29, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were temporary.
The contractual maturities of investments in
Contractual maturities of investments in
available-for-sale securities held at September 29, 2019 exclude $4.0 million of debt mutual funds as they do not have a contractual maturity date.
Derivatives
Teradyne conducts business in a number of foreign countries, with certain transactions denominated in local currencies.
The purpose of Teradyne’s foreign currency management is to minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
Teradyne does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
To minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations associated with the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, Teradyne enters into foreign currency forward contracts.
The change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded directly in earnings, and is used to offset the change in value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts at September 29, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $114.9 million and $163.1 million, respectively.
Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities are included in other (income) expense, net.
Table of Contents
The table does not reflect the corresponding gains and losses from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
H. LEASES
On January 1, 2019, Teradyne adopted ASC 842 using the modified retrospective approach.
Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840).
Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively.
The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.
Teradyne has facility and auto leases, which are accounted for as operating leases.
Teradyne’s facility leases are primarily used for administrative functions, research and development, manufacturing, and storage and distribution.
Remaining lease terms range from less than one year to ten years.
Total lease expense for the three months ended September 29, 2019 was $9.1 million and included $3.0 million of variable lease costs and $0.7 million of costs related to short-term leases which are not recorded on the consolidated balance sheets.
Total lease expense for the nine months ended September 29, 2019 was $26.6 million and included $8.3 million of variable lease costs and $2.2 million of costs related to short-term leases which are not recorded on the consolidated balance sheets.
At September 29, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rate for operating leases was 4.7 years and 5.0%, respectively.
Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2018, future
I.
DEBT
Convertible Senior Notes
Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the “Note Hedge Transactions”) with the initial purchasers or their affiliates (the “Option Counterparties”).
The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of the common stock that underlie the Notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the Notes of $31.70.
The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock.
Table of Contents
Separately and concurrent with the pricing of the Notes, Teradyne entered into warrant transactions with the Option Counterparties (the “Warrant Transactions”) in which it sold
net-share-settled (or, at its election subject to certain conditions, cash-settled) warrants to the Option Counterparties.
The Warrant Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of common stock.
As of September 29, 2019, the strike price of the warrants was approximately $39.78 per share.
The strike price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances.
The Warrant Transactions could have a dilutive effect to Teradyne’s common stock to the extent that the market price per share of Teradyne’s common stock, as measured under the terms of the Warrant Transactions, exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants.
The Note Hedge Transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution to Teradyne’s common stock upon any conversion of the Notes.
However, the Warrant Transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market value per share of Teradyne’s common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrant.
The net cost of the Note Hedge Transactions, after being partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of the warrants, was approximately $33.0 million.
Teradyne considered the guidance of ASC
“Derivatives and Hedging—Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity,” and concluded that the convertible note hedge is both indexed to Teradyne’s common stock and should be classified in stockholders’ equity in its statements of financial position.
The convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock as the terms of the Note Hedge Transactions do not contain an exercise contingency and the settlement amount equals the difference between the fair value of a fixed number of Teradyne’s shares and a fixed strike price.
Because the only variable that can affect the settlement amount is Teradyne’s stock price, which is an input to the fair value of a
fixed-for-fixed option contract, the convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock.
Teradyne assessed whether the convertible note hedge should be classified as equity under ASC
815-40.
In the Note Hedge Transactions contract the settlement terms permit net cash settlement or net share settlement, at the option of Teradyne.
Therefore, the criteria as set forth in ASC
Teradyne analyzed the Warrant Transactions under ASC
“Derivatives and Hedging—Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity,” and other relevant literature, and determined that it met the criteria for classification as an equity transaction and is considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock.
As a result, Teradyne recorded the proceeds from the warrants as an increase to additional
paid-in  capital.
Teradyne does not recognize subsequent changes in fair value of the warrants in its financial statements.
The provisions of ASC
Debt with Conversion and Other Options,” are applicable to the Notes.
ASC
470-20 requires Teradyne to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion feature) components of the Notes in a manner that reflects Teradyne’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the date of issuance when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods.
Teradyne allocated $100.8 million of the $460.0 million principal amount of the Notes to the equity component, which represents a discount to the debt and will be amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method through December 2023.
Accordingly, Teradyne’s effective annual interest rate on the Notes will be approximately 5.0%.
The Notes are classified as long-term debt in the balance sheet based on their December 15, 2023 maturity date.
Debt issuance costs of approximately $7.2 million are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the seven-year term of the Notes.
As of September 29, 2019, debt issuance costs were approximately $4.6 million.
Table of Contents
As of September 29, 2019, the remaining unamortized discount was $69.1 million, which will be amortized over 4.3 years using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying amount of the equity component was $100.8 million.
As of September 29, 2019, the
if-converted value of the Notes was $832.9 million.
Revolving Credit Facility
On June 27, 2019, Teradyne terminated its credit agreement, which Teradyne entered into with Barclays Bank PLC, on April 27, 2015.
The terminated credit agreement provided for a five-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of up to $350 million.
J. PREPAYMENTS
K. DEFERRED REVENUE AND CUSTOMER ADVANCES
L. PRODUCT WARRANTY
Teradyne generally provides a
M. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
On
July 17, 2019 (the “Retirement Date”), former Chief Financial Officer Gregory Beecher retired as Vice President and Senior Advisor of Teradyne, and Teradyne entered into an agreement (the “Retirement Agreement”) with Mr.
Beecher.
Under the Retirement Agreement, Mr.
Beecher’s
unvested time-based restricted stock units and stock options granted prior to 2019 were modified to allow continued vesting; unvested time-based restricted stock units and stock options granted in 2019 were modified to allow continued vesting through January 31, 2023 (the “Non-Competition Period”) in a pro-rated amount based on the number of days that Mr. Beecher was employed during 2019;​​​​​​​ unvested, performance-based restricted stock units awarded in 2019 will vest on the date the amount of shares underlying the performance-based restricted stock units are determined in a pro-rated amount of shares based on the number of days that Mr. Beecher was employed during 2019; vested options or options that vest during the Non-Competition Period may be exercised for the remainder of the applicable option term.
During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, Teradyne recorded a stock based compensation expense of $2.1 million related to the Retirement Agreement
.
Under Teradyne’s stock compensation plans, Teradyne grants stock options, restricted stock units and performance-based restricted stock units, and employees are eligible to purchase Teradyne’s common stock through its Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”).
Time-based restricted stock unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years.
Restricted stock unit awards granted to
non-employee directors vest after a one-year period, with 100% of the award vesting on the earlier of (a) the first anniversary of the grant date or (b) the date of the following year’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Teradyne expenses the cost of the restricted stock unit awards subject to time-based vesting, which is determined to be the fair market value of the shares at the date of grant, ratably over the period during which the restrictions lapse.
Performance-based restricted stock units (“PRSUs”) granted to Teradyne’s executive officers have a performance metric based on relative total shareholder return (“TSR”).
Teradyne’s
three-year TSR performance is measured against the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Composite Index.
The final number of TSR PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares capped at four times the grant date value.
The TSR PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date.
The TSR PRSUs are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The number of units expected to be earned, based upon the achievement of the TSR market condition, is factored into the grant date Monte Carlo valuation.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three-year service period or the period from the grant to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of the grant.
Compensation expense is recognized regardless of the eventual number of units that are earned based upon the market condition, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period.
Compensation expense is reversed if at any time during the three-year service period the executive officer is no longer an employee, subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.
During the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, Teradyne granted PRSUs to its executive officers with a performance metric based on three-year cumulative
non-GAAP profit before interest and tax (“PBIT”) as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue.
Non-GAAP PBIT is a financial measure equal to GAAP income from operations less restructuring and other, net; amortization of acquired intangible assets; acquisition and divestiture related charges or credits; pension actuarial gains and losses;
 non-cash
 convertible debt interest expense; and other
non-recurring
 gains and charges.
The final number of PBIT PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200
% of the target shares.
The PBIT PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three-year
 service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of grant.
Compensation expense is recognized based on the number of units that are earned based upon the three-year Teradyne PBIT as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.
If a PRSU recipient’s employment ends prior to the determination of the performance percentage due to (1) permanent disability or death or (2) retirement or termination other than for cause, after attaining both at least age sixty and at least ten years of service, then all or a portion of the recipient’s PRSUs (based on the actual performance percentage achieved on the determination date) will vest on the date the performance percentage is determined.
Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, no PRSUs will vest if the executive officer is no longer an employee at the end of the three-year period.
During the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.1 million and 0.1 million TSR PRSUs, respectively, with a grant date fair value of $51.51 and $54.85, respectively.
Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of Teradyne’s stock and the NYSE Composite Index for each of the 2019 and 2018 grants over the most recent three-year period.
The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of each of the grants.
Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share, divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $37.95 for
the 2019 grants and $47.70 for the 2018 grant
s.
During the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.1 million and 0.1 million, respectively, of PBIT PRSUs with a grant date fair value of $36.88 and $46.62, respectively.
During the nine months ended September 29, 2019, Teradyne granted 0.7 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $36.85, 0.1 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to
non-employee directors at a weighted average grant date fair value of $48.03
, and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $10.61.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.6 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $46.25, 0.1 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to
non-employee directors at a weighted average grant date fair value of $35.81, and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $12.17.
Restricted stock unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years.
Stock options to purchase Teradyne’s common stock at 100% of the fair market value on the grant date vest in equal annual installments over four years from the grant date and have a maximum term of seven years.
Teradyne determined the stock options’ expected life based upon historical exercise data for executive officers, the age of the executive officers and the terms of the stock option grant.
Volatility was determined using historical volatility for a period equal to the expected life.
The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $37.95 for
the 2019 grants and $47.70 for the 2018 grant
s.
N. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
Reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to the statement of operations for the three and nine months ended September 29
 (a)
O.
GOODWILL AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
Teradyne performs its annual goodwill impairment test as required under the provisions of ASC
“Intangibles—Goodwill and Other” on December 31 of each fiscal year unless interim indicators of impairment exist.
Goodwill is considered impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value.
Intangible Assets
Teradyne reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable or that the useful lives of these assets are no longer appropriate.
Aggregate intangible asset amortization expense was $9.6 million and $30.4 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 and $11.1 million and $28.6 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
P. NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE
The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.1 million of stock options
, because the effect would have been anti-dilutiv​​​​​​​e.
The computation of diluted net income per share for the nine months ended September 29, 2019 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.2 million of restricted stock units because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.5 million shares of restricted stock units because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Q.
RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER
During the three months ended September 29, 2019, Teradyne recorded a $7.8 million
gain for the decrease in the fair value of the MiR contingent consideration liability, partially offset by $0.5 million recorded for
employee
severance charges primarily in
Industrial Automation,
or acquisition related compensation and expenses
, and $0.3 million of fixed assets impairment in Wireless Test
.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne recorded $1.7 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test and $0.8 million
f
o
r acquisition related compensation, partially offset by a $0.8 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.
During the nine months ended September 29, 2019, Teradyne recorded a $16.5 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the MiR contingent consideration liability, partially offset by $2.1 million recorded for employee severance charges primarily in Semiconductor Test and Industrial Automation, $2.3 million for acquisition related expenses and compensation, and $0.3 million of fixed assets impairment in Wireless Test.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne recorded $7.9 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, and $4.1 million for acquisition related compensation
 and expenses
, partially offset by a $9.2 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.
Table of Contents
R. RETIREMENT PLANS
“Compensation—Retirement Benefits
,” requires an employer with a defined benefit plan or other postretirement benefit plan to recognize an asset or a liability on its balance sheet for the overfunded or underfunded status of the plan.
The pension asset or liability represents a difference between the fair value of the pension plan’s assets and the projected benefit obligation.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
Teradyne has defined benefit pension plans covering a portion of domestic employees and employees of certain
non-U.S.  subsidiaries.
Benefits under these plans are based on employees’ years of service and compensation.
Teradyne’s funding policy is to make contributions to these plans in accordance with local laws and to the extent that such contributions are tax deductible.
The assets of the U.S. qualified pension plan consist primarily of fixed income and equity securities.
In addition, Teradyne has unfunded qualified foreign plans as well as an unfunded supplemental executive defined benefit plan in the United States to provide retirement benefits in excess of levels allowed by the Employment Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) and the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”).
In the nine months ended September 29, 2019, Teradyne contributed $2.1 million to the U.S. supplemental executive defined benefit pension plan and $0.6 million to certain qualified pension plans for
non-U.S. subsidiaries.
Postretirement Benefit Plan
In addition to receiving pension benefits, Teradyne employees in the United States who meet early retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in Teradyne’s Welfare Plan, which includes medical and dental benefits up to age 65.
Death benefits provide a fixed sum to retirees’ survivors and are available to all retirees.
Substantially all of Teradyne’s current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees.
Table of Contents
S. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Purchase Commitments
As of September 29, 2019, Teradyne had entered into purchase commitments for certain components and materials.
The purchase commitments covered by the agreements aggregate to approximately $360.3 million, of which $354.2 million is for less than one year.
Legal Claims
Teradyne is subject to various legal proceedings and claims which have arisen in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on Teradyne’s results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
T. INCOME TAXES
On a quarterly basis, Teradyne evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets by jurisdiction and assesses the need for a valuation allowance.
As of September 29, 2019, Teradyne believes that it will ultimately realize the deferred tax assets recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
However, should Teradyne believe that it is
more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets would not be realized, the tax provision would increase in the period in which Teradyne determined that the realizability was not likely.
Teradyne considers the probability of future taxable income and historical profitability, among other factors, in assessing the realizability of the deferred tax assets.
As of September 29, 2019 and December 31, 2018, Teradyne had $13.6 million and $43.4 million, respectively, of reserves for uncertain tax positions.
The $29.8 million net decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions is primarily composed of reductions in uncertain tax positions amounting to $22.4 million related to transfer pricing and $7.2 million associated with U.S. research and development tax credits.
These reductions primarily resulted from the conclusion of the U.S. Federal income tax audit for the year ended December 31, 2015.
As of
September
29, 2019, Teradyne does not anticipate a material change in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months.
On July 27, 2015, in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner (“Altera”), the U.S. Tax Court issued an opinion invalidating the regulations relating to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement.
A final decision was issued by the Tax Court in December 2015.
The IRS appealed the decision in June 2016.
On July 24, 2018, the Ninth Circuit Federal Court issued a decision that was subsequently withdrawn and a reconstituted panel has conferred on the appeal.
On June 7, 2019, the Ninth Circuit Federal Court upheld the cost-sharing regulations.
Due to the uncertainty surrounding the status of the current regulations, questions related to the scope of potential benefits or obligations, the outcome of the appeals process, and questions regarding jurisdiction, Teradyne has not established any income tax reserves as of
September
29, 2019 related to Altera.
Teradyne estimates that including stock-based compensation in Teradyne’s intercompany cost-sharing arrangement could result in a potential tax reserve of $5 million to $11 million.
Teradyne will continue to monitor ongoing developments and potential impacts to our consolidated financial statements.
Teradyne recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense.
As of September 29, 2019 and December 31, 2018, $0.5 million and $0.3 million, respectively, of interest and penalties were accrued for uncertain tax positions.
For the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, expense of $0.2 million and $0.1 million, respectively, was recorded for interest and penalties related to income tax items.
Teradyne qualifies for a tax holiday in Singapore by fulfilling the requirements of an agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board under which certain headcount and spending requirements must be met.
The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the nine months ended September 29, 2019 was $12.0 million, or $0.07 per diluted share.
The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $8.9 million, or $0.05 per diluted share.
The tax holiday is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2020.
U.
SEGMENT INFORMATION
Included in the income (loss) before income taxes for each of the segments are charges and credits related to restructuring and other and inventory charges.
Total business assets are directly attributable to each business.
Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and certain other assets.
V. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Stock Repurchase Program
In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
Teradyne intends to repurchase $500 million in 2019.
During the nine months ended September 29, 2019, Teradyne repurchased 8.8 million shares of common stock for $368.8 million at an average price of $41.93 per share.
The cumulative repurchases under the $1.5 billion stock repurchase program as of September 29, 2019 totaled 30.4 million shares of common stock for $1.2 billion at an average price per share of $39.18.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne repurchased 13.8 million shares of common stock for $562.3 million at an average price of $40.62 per share.
The total price includes commissions and is recorded as a reduction ​​​​​​​to retained earnings.
Dividend
Holders of Teradyne’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by Teradyne’s Board of Directors.
, May 2019 and August 2019, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share.
Dividend payments for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 were $15.3 million and $46.3 million, respectively.
, May 2018 and August 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share.
Dividend payments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $16.6 million and $51.3 million, respectively.
While Teradyne declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, it may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future.
Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of Teradyne’s Board of Directors, which will consider, among other things, Teradyne’s earnings, capital requirements ​​​​​​​and financial condition.
W. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On October 18, 2019, Teradyne entered into an agreement to acquire 100% of the equity of AutoGuide, LLC (“AutoGuide”), a maker of high-payload autonomous mobile robots (AMRs), an emerging and fast growing segment of the global forklift market for $58 million of cash and up to $107 million in earn-outs potentially through 2022.
AutoGuide is based in Chelmsford, MA.
AutoGuide’s AMRs are used for material transport of payloads up to 4,500 kg in manufacturing, warehouse and logistics applications.
These products complement MiR’s lower payload products.
The acquisition of AutoGuide is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2019, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approval.
AutoGuide will be included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.
Table of Contents
 Item 1:
Legal Proceedings
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen, in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
 Item 1A:
Risk Factors
In addition to other information set forth in this Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results.
The risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form
10-K remain applicable to our business.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form
Trade regulations and restrictions could impact our ability to sell products to and support certain customers, which may materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations.
We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons.
In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.
We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments.
We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities.
Compliance with these laws has not significantly limited our sales, but could significantly limit them in the future.
Changes in, and responses to, U.S. trade policy could reduce the competitiveness of our products and cause our sales to drop, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
The U.S. government from time to time has issued export restrictions that prohibit U.S. companies from exporting U.S. manufactured products, foreign manufactured products with more than 25% controlled U.S. content, as well as U.S. origin technology.
For example, the U.S. Department of Commerce has restricted the access of U.S. origin technologies to certain Chinese companies by adding those companies to the Entity List under U.S.
Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”).
On May 16, 2019, Huawei and 68 of its affiliates, including HiSilicon, were added to the U.S. Department of Commerce Entity List under the EAR.
This action by the U.S. Department of Commerce imposes new export licensing requirements on exports,
re-exports, and
in-country  transfers of all U.S. regulated products, software and technology to the designated Huawei entities.
While most of our products are not subject to the EAR and therefore not affected by the Entity List restrictions, certain of our products are currently manufactured in the U.S. and thus subject to the Entity List restrictions.
Compliance with the Entity List restrictions has not significantly impacted our sales, but could limit sales in the future.
In addition, the prohibition on transfers of U.S. origin technology to Huawei could significantly limit our ability to service certain of our products sold to Huawei and our ability to engage in product development activities with Huawei and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Furthermore, Huawei’s inability to obtain products from other companies in its supply chain may adversely impact Huawei’s demand for our products.
Huawei or other foreign customers affected by future U.S. government sanctions or threats of sanctions may respond by developing their own solutions to replace our products or by adopting our foreign competitors’ solutions.
Also, our controls related to Entity List compliance could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities.
Even if such restrictions are lifted, any financial or other penalties or continuing export restrictions imposed on Huawei could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
