Item 1A:  

Risk Factors  



The implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products may have a material impact on our business.
Our business operations and supply chain are global and may be disrupted by the implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products.
On July 6, 2018, the United States Trade Representative imposed a 25% tariff on a list of products, including certain Teradyne products that are made in China and imported into the United States.
We intend to submit requests for exclusion of our products from the tariff, but there is no assurance that our requests will be approved.
We have implemented operational changes that will mitigate the impact of the 25% tariff on the import of our impacted products into the United States.
As a result, we do not expect that the tariff will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
On July 10, 2018, the United States Trade Representative announced a proposed 10% tariff on many additional products made in China and imported into the United States.
It is uncertain whether this proposed tariff will be implemented and, if implemented, as to the products that will be covered.
At this time, we do not expect that this proposed 10% tariff will significantly impact any Teradyne products and thus the proposed tariff should not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
On June 29, 2018, the United States Commerce Department announced that it has commenced a review of new export controls focusing on emerging technologies.
While there is uncertainty as to whether any new export controls will be implemented and, if implemented, as to the products that will be covered, new export controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
In addition to any actions taken by the United States, any tariffs or other trade restrictions implemented by China could disrupt our business operations, sales and supply chain and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
