Item 3:  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks  

For “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” affecting Teradyne, see Part 2 Item 7a, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks,” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018.
There were no material changes in our exposure to market risk from those set forth in our Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
In addition to market risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have an equity price risk related to the fair value of our convertible senior unsecured notes issued in December 2016.
In December 2016, Teradyne issued $460 million aggregate principal amount of 1.25% convertible senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) due December 15, 2023.
As of July 1, 2018, the Notes had a fair value of $612.7 million.
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of hypothetical 10% changes of Teradyne’s stock price as of the end of the second quarter of 2018 and the estimated impact on the fair value of the Notes.
The selected scenarios are not predictions of future events, but rather are intended to illustrate the effect such event may have on the fair value of the Notes.
The fair value of the Notes is subject to equity price risk due to the convertible feature.
The fair value of the Notes will generally increase as Teradyne’s common stock price increases and will generally decrease as the common stock price declines in value.
The change in stock price affects the fair value of the convertible senior notes, but does not impact Teradyne’s financial position, cash flows or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligation.
Additionally, we carry the Notes at face value less unamortized discount on our balance sheet, and we present the fair value for required disclosure purposes only.
In connection with the offering of the Notes we also sold warrants to the option counterparties.
These transactions have been accounted for as an adjustment to our shareholders’ equity.
The convertible note hedge transactions are expected to reduce the potential equity dilution upon conversion of the Notes.
The warrants along with any shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the average market price of our common stock for a given reporting period exceeds the applicable strike price or conversion price of the warrants or Notes, respectively.
Table of Contents 

 Item 4:  

Controls and Procedures  

As of the end of the period covered by this report, our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) or Rule 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act.
Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that material information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, including ensuring that such material information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Table of Contents 

PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION  

 Item 1:  

Legal Proceedings  

We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen, in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
Item 1A:  

Risk Factors  



The implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products may have a material impact on our business.
Our business operations and supply chain are global and may be disrupted by the implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products.
On July 6, 2018, the United States Trade Representative imposed a 25% tariff on a list of products, including certain Teradyne products that are made in China and imported into the United States.
We intend to submit requests for exclusion of our products from the tariff, but there is no assurance that our requests will be approved.
We have implemented operational changes that will mitigate the impact of the 25% tariff on the import of our impacted products into the United States.
As a result, we do not expect that the tariff will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
On July 10, 2018, the United States Trade Representative announced a proposed 10% tariff on many additional products made in China and imported into the United States.
It is uncertain whether this proposed tariff will be implemented and, if implemented, as to the products that will be covered.
At this time, we do not expect that this proposed 10% tariff will significantly impact any Teradyne products and thus the proposed tariff should not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
On June 29, 2018, the United States Commerce Department announced that it has commenced a review of new export controls focusing on emerging technologies.
While there is uncertainty as to whether any new export controls will be implemented and, if implemented, as to the products that will be covered, new export controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
In addition to any actions taken by the United States, any tariffs or other trade restrictions implemented by China could disrupt our business operations, sales and supply chain and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Item 2:  

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we repurchased 8.8 million shares of common stock for $360.8 million at an average price of $40.82 per share.
Table of Contents 

In December 2016, our Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization, which commenced on January 1, 2017.
During the six months ended July 2, 2017, we repurchased 3.0 million shares of common stock for $94.3 million at an average price of $31.77 per share.
Includes 3,135 shares at an average price of $38.87 withheld from employees for the payment of taxes.
We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.
