 Item 1: Financial Statements
TERADYNE, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, are an integral part of the condensed
consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
TERADYNE, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, are an integral part of the condensed
consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
TERADYNE, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, are an integral part of the condensed
consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
TERADYNE, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, are an integral part of the condensed
consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
TERADYNE, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A.
THE COMPANY
   •   semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems;
   •   industrial automation (“Industrial Automation”) products; and
   •   wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.
B.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Presentation
The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
These interim financial statements are unaudited and reflect all normal recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair statement of such interim financial statements.
Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The December 31, 2017 condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Preparation of Financial Statements and Use of Estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of ASC 605, “Revenue Recognition” (“ASC 605”), which is also referred to herein as “Legacy GAAP” or the “previous guidance.” Teradyne recorded a net increase
Table of Contents
In accordance with ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
Teradyne’s determination of revenue is dependent upon a five step process outlined below.
Teradyne accounts for a contract with a customer when there is written approval, the contract is committed, the rights of the parties, including payment terms, are identified, the contract has commercial substance and consideration is probable of collection.
Teradyne periodically enters into contracts with its customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with extended warranty obligations.
Teradyne determines performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
In order to be distinct the product or service must perform either on its own or with readily available resources and must be separate within the context of the contract.
Teradyne considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
Teradyne does not have material variable consideration which could impact the stated purchase price agreed to by Teradyne and the customer.
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation.
Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
If standalone transactions are not available, Teradyne will estimate the standalone selling price through market assessments or cost plus a reasonable margin analysis.
Any discounts from standalone selling price are spread proportionally to each performance obligation.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer.
For transactions which do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Typically acceptance of Teradyne’s products and services is a formality as Teradyne delivers similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications.
In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, Teradyne will defer revenue recognition until customer acceptance.
Table of Contents
Revenue recognized in accordance with ASC 606 was $483.2 million for the period ended April 1, 2018.
Teradyne also recognized $4.3 million in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
Disaggregation of Revenue
The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and timing of revenue recognition.
 (1) System on a chip (“SOC”)
Performance Obligations
Hardware
Extended Warranty
Customers have the option to purchase an extended warranty, which extends the warranty period for systems and robots beyond the one year standard warranty.
The extended warranty is purchased in the same transaction as the system or robot purchase and is classified as a separate performance obligation which meets the criteria for over time recognition.
The relative standalone selling price of the extended warranty is recognized ratably over the course of the extended warranty based on months completed.
Training and Applications Support
Teradyne sells training and applications support to customers either in standalone transactions or included with system purchases.
The training and support allow the customer to use Teradyne’s systems efficiently and
Table of Contents
 effectively.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
Both are recognized using an input method of hours consumed as this best depicts the transfer of services to the customer.
Service Agreements
Service agreements are recognized ratably over the period of agreement based on months completed.
Post-Contract Customer Support (“PCS”)
Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty.
These services include telephone support, bug fixes, and when-and-if available upgrades.
Standalone selling price for PCS is not directly observable as Teradyne does not sell these services separately.
Teradyne has estimated the standalone selling price for these services based on adjusted market assessments.
Revenue for PCS is recognized ratably over the performance period.
Teradyne does not allow customer returns or provide refunds to customers for any products or services.
Contract Balances
The following table provides information about contract liabilities.
Teradyne does not have material contract assets on the balance sheet.
The amount of revenue recognized during the quarter ended April 1, 2018 that was included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balance at January 1, 2018 was $21.8 million and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and PCS.
Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation.
Customers typically pay for these services net 30 to 60 days from the date that transfer of control of the associated system or product occurs.
Remaining Performance Obligations
Teradyne does not have material remaining performance obligations from contracts with an original expected duration of greater than one year.
Significant Judgments
Teradyne makes no significant judgements in determining the amount or timing of revenue recognition.
Practical Expedients
Teradyne has adopted the practical expedients available within ASC 340 “Other Assets and Deferred Costs” for contract assets, specifically in relation to incremental costs of obtaining a contract.
Teradyne generally expenses sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period would be less than one year.
Teradyne records these costs within selling and administrative expenses.
Table of Contents
Teradyne has adopted the practical expedient which states an entity need not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component if the entity expects, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
Teradyne does not have material payments associated with performance obligations outside this one year time frame.
Impacts
The following tables summarize the impact of ASC 606 to Teradyne’s consolidated financial statements.
Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606.
Under Legacy GAAP Teradyne did not recognize revenue prior to acceptance if payment, title, or risk of loss was tied to acceptance.
Under ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenue prior to receipt of acceptance if acceptance is deemed a formality.
Retirement Benefits
Table of Contents
 Cost.” Teradyne retrospectively adopted the new accounting guidance on presentation of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs in the first quarter of 2018.
This guidance requires the service cost component of net benefit costs to be reported in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as other employee compensation costs.
The non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations.
Following the adoption of this guidance, Teradyne continues to record the service cost component in the same line item as other employee compensation costs and the non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses are reported within other (income) expense, net.
The retrospective adoption of this standard increased the first quarter of 2017 income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of the non-service component of pension expense and decreased other income (expense), net by the same amount with no impact to net income.
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
Contingencies and Litigation
C. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” The guidance in this ASU supersedes the lease recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 840,
Table of Contents
 “Leases.” The new standard establishes a right- of-use (“ROU”) model that requires a lessee to record an ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statements of operations.
The new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 with early adoption permitted.
A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements.
Teradyne is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on its financial position and results of operations.
D. ACQUISITIONS
Energid Technologies Corporation
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total preliminary purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare; utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
The Energid acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s preliminary purchase price allocation was goodwill of $15.7 million, acquired intangible assets of $10.9 million with an average estimated useful life of 6.1 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets.
The acquisition was not material to our condensed consolidated financial statements.
E. INVENTORIES
Inventory reserves for the periods ending April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $103.4 million and $102.9 million, respectively.
F. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Cash Equivalents
Teradyne considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents.
Marketable Securities
Table of Contents
   •   The length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost;
   •   The financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer; and
   •   The intent and ability to retain the investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.
Teradyne’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2, and equity securities are classified as Level 1.
Acquisition-related contingent consideration is classified as Level 3.
Teradyne determines the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
Assumptions utilized in the model include forecasted revenues, revenue volatility and discount rate.
The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors.
These pricing vendors utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities.
Realized gains recorded in the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 were $0.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively.
Realized losses recorded in the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 were $1.5 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
Realized gains are included in interest income and realized losses are included in interest expense.
Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale debt securities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
Changes in fair value of equity securities are included in other (income) expense, net.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 financial instruments.
Table of Contents
The following table sets forth by fair value hierarchy Teradyne’s financial assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
 (b) In the three months ended April 1, 2018, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was decreased by $5.0 million, primarily due to a decrease in forecasted revenue.
In the three months ended April 2, 2017, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was increased by $0.6 million primarily due to an increase in forecasted revenue and a decrease in the discount rate.
As of April 1, 2018, the significant unobservable inputs used in the Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the Universal Robots contingent consideration include forecasted revenue, revenue volatility and discount rate.
Increases or decreases in the inputs would result in a higher or lower fair value measurement.
The maximum payment for the remaining Universal Robots revenue earn-out is $25.0 million.
 (1) The carrying value represents the bifurcated debt component only, while the fair value is based on quoted market prices for the convertible note which includes the equity conversion features.
Table of Contents
The fair values of accounts receivable, net and accounts payable approximate the carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
Table of Contents
As of April 1, 2018, the fair market value of investments in debt securities with unrealized losses totaled $891.0 million.
Of this value, $62.1 million had unrealized losses of $1.6 million for greater than one year and $828.9 million had unrealized losses of $1.9 million for less than one year.
As of December 31, 2017, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $1,350.9 million.
Of this value, $141.0 million had unrealized losses of $1.2 million for greater than one year and $1,209.9 million had unrealized losses of $2.2 million for less than one year.
Teradyne reviews its investments to identify and evaluate investments that have an indication of possible impairment.
Based on this review, Teradyne determined that the unrealized losses related to these investments at April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were temporary.
Contractual maturities of investments in debt securities held at April 1, 2018 exclude $2.7 million of debt mutual funds as they do not have a contractual maturity date.
Derivatives
Teradyne conducts business in a number of foreign countries, with certain transactions denominated in local currencies.
The purpose of Teradyne’s foreign currency management is to minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
Teradyne does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
To minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations associated with the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, Teradyne enters into foreign currency forward contracts.
The change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded directly in earnings, and is used to offset the change in value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts at April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $108.8 million and $116.8 million, respectively.
Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities are included in other (income) expense, net.
Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the effect of derivative instruments recognized in the statement of operations for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017.
 (1) The table does not reflect the corresponding gains and losses from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
 (2) For the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, net gains from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were $0.6 million and $1.5 million, respectively.
G. DEBT
Convertible Senior Notes
On December 12, 2016, Teradyne completed a private offering of $460.0 million convertible senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”).
The Notes will mature on December 15, 2023, unless earlier repurchased or converted.
The Notes bear interest from December 12, 2016 at a rate of 1.25% per year payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2017.
Table of Contents
Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the “Note Hedge Transactions”) with the initial purchasers or their affiliates (the “Option Counterparties”).
The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of the common stock that underlie the Notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the Notes of $31.80.
The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock.
The convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s stock as the terms of the Note Hedge Transactions do not contain an exercise contingency and the settlement amount equals the difference between the fair value of a fixed number of Teradyne’s shares and a fixed strike price.
Because the only variable that can affect the settlement amount is Teradyne’s stock price, which is an input to the fair value of a fixed-for-fixed option contract, the convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s stock.
Separately and concurrent with the pricing of the Notes, Teradyne entered into warrant transactions with the Option Counterparties (the “Warrant Transactions”) in which it sold net-share-settled (or, at its election subject to certain conditions, cash-settled) warrants to the Option Counterparties.
The Warrant Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of common stock.
As of December 31, 2017, the strike price of the warrants was approximately $39.91 per share.
The strike price is subject to adjustments under certain circumstances.
The Warrant Transactions could have a dilutive effect to Teradyne’s common stock to the extent that the market price per share of Teradyne’s common stock, as measured under the terms of the Warrant Transactions, exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants.
The Note Hedge Transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution to Teradyne’s common stock upon any conversion of the Notes.
However, the Warrant Transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market value per share of Teradyne’s common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrant.
The net cost of the Notes Hedge Transactions, after being partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of the warrants, was approximately $33 million.
Teradyne’s effective annual interest rate on the Notes will be approximately 5.0%.
The Notes are classified as long-term debt in the balance sheet based on their December 15, 2023 maturity date.
Debt issuance costs of approximately $7.2 million are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the seven year term of the Notes.
As of April 1, 2018, unamortized debt issuance costs were approximately $6.0 million.
Table of Contents
As of April 1, 2018, the remaining unamortized discount was $90.6 million, which will be amortized over 5.8 years using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying amount of the equity component was $100.8 million.
As of April 1, 2018, the conversion rate was equal to the initial conversion price of approximately $31.80 per share and the if-converted value of the Notes was $661.2 million.
Revolving Credit Facility
On April 27, 2015, Teradyne entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the lenders party thereto.
The Credit Agreement provides for a five-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of up to $350 million (the “Credit Facility”).
The Credit Agreement further provides that, subject to customary conditions, Teradyne may seek to obtain from existing or new lenders incremental commitments under the Credit Facility in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $150 million.
Proceeds from the Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes and working capital.
Teradyne incurred $2.3 million in costs related to the revolving credit facility.
These costs are being amortized over the five-year term of the revolving credit facility and are included in interest expense in the statements of operations.
As of May 11, 2018, Teradyne has not borrowed any funds under the Credit Facility.
The interest rates applicable to loans under the Credit Facility are, at Teradyne’s option, equal to either a base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.00% to 1.00% per annum or LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 1.00% to 2.00% per annum, based on the Consolidated Leverage Ratio of Teradyne and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
In addition, Teradyne will pay a commitment fee on the unused portion of the commitments under the Credit Facility ranging from 0.125% to 0.350% per annum, based on the then applicable Consolidated Leverage Ratio.
Teradyne is not required to repay any loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity, subject to certain customary exceptions.
Teradyne is permitted to prepay all or any portion of the loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity without premium or penalty, other than customary LIBOR breakage costs.
Table of Contents
The Credit Facility is guaranteed by certain of Teradyne’s domestic subsidiaries and collateralized by assets of Teradyne and such subsidiaries, including a pledge of 65% of the capital stock of certain foreign subsidiaries.
H. PREPAYMENTS
I.
DEFERRED REVENUE AND CUSTOMER ADVANCES
J.
PRODUCT WARRANTY
Teradyne generally provides a one-year warranty on its products, commencing upon installation, acceptance, delivery or shipment.
A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenues for estimated warranty expense based on historical experience.
Related costs are charged to the warranty accrual as incurred.
The warranty balance below is included in other accrued liabilities on the balance sheet.
Table of Contents
When Teradyne receives revenue for extended warranties, beyond one year, it is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
Related costs are expensed as incurred.
The balance below is included in short and long-term deferred revenue and customer advances on the balance sheet.
K. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
Under Teradyne’s stock compensation plans, Teradyne grants stock options, restricted stock units and performance-based restricted stock units, and employees are eligible to purchase Teradyne’s common stock through its Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”).
Stock options to purchase Teradyne’s common stock at 100% of the fair market value on the grant date vest in equal annual installments over four years from the grant date and have a maximum term of seven years.
Time-based restricted stock unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years.
Restricted stock unit awards granted to non-employee directors vest after a one year period, with 100% of the award vesting on the earlier of (a) the first anniversary of the grant date or the (b) the date of the following year’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Teradyne expenses the cost of the restricted stock unit awards subject to time-based vesting, which is determined to be the fair market value of the shares at the date of grant, ratably over the period during which the restrictions lapse.
Commencing in January 2014, Teradyne granted performance-based restricted stock units (“PRSUs”) to its executive officers with a performance metric based on relative total shareholder return (“TSR”).
For TSR grants issued in 2018 and 2017, Teradyne’s three-year TSR performance is measured against the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Composite Index.
The final number of TSR PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares capped at four times the grant date value.
The TSR PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date.
The TSR PRSUs are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The number of units expected to be earned, based upon the achievement of the TSR market condition, is factored into the grant date Monte Carlo valuation.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three-year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of the grant.
Compensation expense is recognized regardless of the eventual number of units that are earned based upon the market condition, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period.
Compensation expense is reversed if at any time during the three-year service period the executive officer is no longer an employee, subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.
In January 2018 and 2017, Teradyne granted PRSUs to its executive officers with a performance metric based on three-year cumulative non-GAAP profit before interest and tax (“PBIT”) as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue.
Non-GAAP PBIT is a financial measure equal to GAAP income from operations less restructuring and other, net; amortization of acquired intangible assets; acquisition and divestiture related charges or credits; pension actuarial gains and losses; non-cash convertible debt interest expense; and other non-recurring gains and charges.
The final number of PBIT PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from
Table of Contents
 200% to 0% of the target shares.
The PBIT PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of grant.
Compensation expense is recognized based on the number of units that are earned based upon the three-year Teradyne PBIT as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.
Beginning with PRSUs granted in January 2014, if the recipient’s employment ends prior to the determination of the performance percentage due to (1) permanent disability or death or (2) retirement or termination other than for cause, after attaining both at least age sixty and at least ten years of service, then all or a portion of the recipient’s PRSUs (based on the actual performance percentage achieved on the determination date) will vest on the date the performance percentage is determined.
Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, no PRSUs will vest if the executive officer is no longer an employee at the end of the three-year period.
Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of Teradyne’s stock and the NYSE Composite Index for the 2018 and 2017 grant over the most recent three year period.
The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2018 grants and $0.28 per share for 2017 grants, divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $47.70 for the 2018 grant and $28.56 for the 2017 grant.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, Teradyne granted 0.1 million and 0.1 million, respectively, of PBIT PRSUs with a grant date fair value of $46.62 and $27.72, respectively.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.5 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $46.58 and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $12.17.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, Teradyne granted 0.8 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $27.86 and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $7.13.
Restricted stock unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years.
Stock options vest in equal annual installments over four years and have a term of seven years from the date of grant.
Table of Contents
Teradyne determined the stock options’ expected life based upon historical exercise data for executive officers, the age of the executive officers and the terms of the stock option grant.
Volatility was determined using historical volatility for a period equal to the expected life.
The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2018 grants and $0.28 per share for 2017 grants divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $47.70 for the 2018 grant and $28.56 for the 2017 grant.
L. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Table of Contents
M. GOODWILL AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
Teradyne performs its annual goodwill impairment test as required under the provisions of ASC 350-10, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other” on December 31 of each fiscal year unless interim indicators of impairment exist.
Goodwill is considered impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value.
Table of Contents
Intangible Assets
Teradyne reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable or that the useful lives of these assets are no longer appropriate.
 (1) Gross carrying amount includes $10.9 million of Energid acquired intangible assets.
Aggregate intangible asset amortization expense was $7.7 million and $8.0 million, respectively, for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017.
Table of Contents
N. NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE
 (1) Incremental shares from assumed conversion of the convertible notes was calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the conversion price of $31.80, multiplied by 14.5 million shares.
The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the convertible debt, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.
 (2) Convertible notes hedge warrant shares were calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the warrant price of $39.91, multiplied by 14.5 million shares.
The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the warrant, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.
The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three months ended April 1, 2018 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.4 million shares of restricted stock units because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three months ended April 2, 2017 excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock options to purchase approximately 0.1 million shares because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Table of Contents
O.
RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne recorded a $5.0 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, partially offset by $3.9 million recorded for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, and $0.8 million of acquisition related expenses.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, Teradyne recorded $2.5 million of restructuring and other charges of which $1.3 million was for a lease impairment of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA which was terminated in September 2017, $0.6 million was for employee severance charges, and $0.6 million for the increase in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.
P. RETIREMENT PLANS
ASC 715, “Compensation—Retirement Benefits” requires an employer with defined benefit plan or other postretirement benefit plan to recognize an asset or a liability on its balance sheet for the overfunded or underfunded status of the plan.
The pension asset or liability represents a difference between the fair value of the pension plan’s assets and the projected benefit obligation.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
Teradyne has defined benefit pension plans covering a portion of domestic employees and employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries.
Benefits under these plans are based on employees’ years of service and compensation.
Teradyne’s funding policy is to make contributions to these plans in accordance with local laws and to the extent that such contributions are tax deductible.
The assets of the U.S. qualified pension plan consist primarily of fixed income and equity securities.
In addition, Teradyne has unfunded qualified foreign plans as well as an unfunded supplemental executive defined benefit plan in the United States to provide retirement benefits in excess of levels allowed by the Employment Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) and the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”).
In the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne contributed $0.6 million to the U.S. supplemental executive defined benefit pension plan and $0.2 million to certain qualified pension plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries.
Postretirement Benefit Plan
In addition to receiving pension benefits, Teradyne employees in the United States who meet early retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in Teradyne’s Welfare Plan, which includes medical and dental benefits up to age 65.
Death benefits provide a fixed sum to retirees’ survivors and are available to all retirees.
Substantially all of Teradyne’s current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees.
Table of Contents
Q.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Purchase Commitments
As of April 1, 2018, Teradyne had entered into purchase commitments for certain components and materials.
The purchase commitments covered by the agreements aggregate to approximately $285.8 million, of which $275.7 million is for less than one year.
Legal Claims
Teradyne is subject to various legal proceedings and claims which have arisen in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on Teradyne’s results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
R. INCOME TAXES
The effective tax rate for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 was 9.2% and 7.4%, respectively.
The increase in the effective tax rate from the three months ended April 2, 2017 to the three months ended April 1, 2018 primarily resulted from a projected shift in the geographic distribution of income which increased income subject to taxation in the U.S. relative to lower tax rate jurisdictions and a reduction in discrete tax benefits recognized.
These increases were partially offset by the benefit of the reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and the U.S. foreign derived intangible income deduction.
The effective tax rates for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 differed from the expected federal statutory rate primarily because of the favorable effect of statutory rates applicable to income earned outside the United States.
The tax rate for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 was also reduced by the benefit from U.S. research and development tax credits, partially offset by additions to the uncertain tax positions for transfer pricing, both of which are included in the projected annual effective tax rate.
Discrete tax benefits recorded in the three months ended April 1, 2018 amounted to $8.3 million composed of $7.6 million from stock based compensation and $0.7 million of other discrete tax benefits.
Discrete tax expense amounted to $2.3 million composed of $1.7 million from the remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of reductions in tax rates and $0.6 million of other discrete tax expenses.
The $7.6 million of discrete benefit from stock based compensation included $7.4 million of excess tax benefits recognized pursuant to ASU No.
2016-09 “Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.”
Table of Contents
Discrete tax benefits recorded in the three months ended April 2, 2017 amounted to $7.0 million of which $5.5 million resulted from stock based compensation, $0.7 million related to U.S. research and development tax credits and $0.8 million from other discrete tax benefits.
The $5.5 million of discrete benefit from stock based compensation included $5.2 million of excess tax benefits recognized pursuant to ASU No.
2016-09 “Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.”
On a quarterly basis, Teradyne evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets by jurisdiction and assesses the need for a valuation allowance.
As of April 1, 2018, Teradyne believes that it will ultimately realize the deferred tax assets recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
However, should Teradyne believe that it is more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets would not be realized, the tax provision would increase in the period in which Teradyne determined that the realizability was not likely.
Teradyne considers the probability of future taxable income and historical profitability, among other factors, in assessing the realizability of the deferred tax assets.
As of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Teradyne had $37.3 million and $36.3 million, respectively, of reserves for uncertain tax positions.
The $1.0 million net increase in reserves for uncertain tax positions is primarily composed of additions related to transfer pricing exposures and U.S. research and development tax credits.
Teradyne is currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service.
The timing of resolution and closure of the tax audit is highly unpredictable.
Given the uncertainty, it is reasonably possible that the balance of unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change within the next twelve months.
However, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible adjustments cannot presently be made.
Teradyne recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense.
As of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $0.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively, of interest and penalties were accrued for uncertain tax positions.
For the three months ended April 1, 2018, an expense of $0.03 million was recorded for interest and penalties related to income tax items.
For the three months ended April 2, 2017, a benefit of $0.1 million was recorded for interest and penalties related to income tax items.
Teradyne qualifies for a tax holiday in Singapore by fulfilling the requirements of an agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board under which certain headcount and spending requirements must be met.
The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the three months ended April 1, 2018 was $3.0 million, or $0.01 per diluted share.
The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the three months ended April 2, 2017 was $4.7 million, or $0.02 per diluted share.
The tax holiday is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2020.
In the fourth quarter of 2017, Teradyne recorded a provisional amount of $186.0 million of additional income tax expense which represents Teradyne’s best estimate of the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Reform Act”) in accordance with Teradyne’s understanding of the Tax Reform Act and guidance available at that time.
The $186.0 million is composed of expense of $161.0 million related to the one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings, $33.6 million of expense related to the remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future, a benefit of $10.3 million associated with the impact of correlative adjustments on uncertain tax positions, and $1.7 million of expense related to the remeasurement of certain uncertain tax positions resulting from the reduction in the federal tax rate.
Although the provisional estimates are based on the best available interpretations of the Tax Reform Act, the final impacts may differ from the estimates due to, among other things, the issuance of additional regulatory and legislative guidance related to the Tax Reform Act.
As of April 1, 2018, there has been no material change to the provisional amount recorded.
Any adjustment to the provisional amounts will be recorded in 2018 when the analysis is complete.
S. SEGMENT INFORMATION
Teradyne has four operating segments (Semiconductor Test, System Test, Industrial Automation and Wireless Test), which are its reportable segments.
The Semiconductor Test segment includes operations related
Table of Contents
 (2) Included in the income (loss) before income taxes for each of the segments are charges and credits related to restructuring and other and inventory charges.
 (3) Total business assets are directly attributable to each business.
Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and certain other assets.
Table of Contents
T. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Stock Repurchase Program
In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
Teradyne intends to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne repurchased 2.9 million shares of common stock for $134.3 million at an average price of $45.69 per share.
In December 2016, the Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization which commenced on January 1, 2017.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, Teradyne repurchased 1.3 million shares of common stock for $37.7 million at an average price of $29.38 per share.
The total price includes commissions and is recorded as a reduction to retained earnings.
Table of Contents
Dividend
Holders of Teradyne’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by Teradyne’s Board of Directors.
In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share.
Dividend payments for the three months ended April 1, 2018 were $17.6 million.
In January 2017, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share.
Dividend payments for the three months ended April 2, 2017 were $14.0 million.
While Teradyne declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, it may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future.
Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of Teradyne’s Board of Directors which will consider, among other things, Teradyne’s earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.
U.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $148 million net of cash acquired, and up to an additional approximately $124 million payable upon the achievement of certain revenue and profit performance targets through 2020.
The fair value of assets and liabilities acquired has not been disclosed because Teradyne has not completed the valuation.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR will be part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.
Table of Contents
 Item 1: Legal Proceedings
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen, in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
 Item 1A: Risk Factors
Our business may suffer if we are impacted by the implementation of tariffs on our products.
Our business operations are international and may be disrupted by the implementation of tariffs on our products.
In March 2018, the United States Trade Representative announced proposed tariffs on a list of products manufactured in China.
While there is uncertainty as to whether the proposed tariffs will be implemented and, if they are implemented, as to the products that will be covered by the tariffs, the tariffs if implemented could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
In addition, tariffs implemented by China could disrupt our business operations or impact the sale of our products and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results or operations.
