fls.txt
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors and some also maintain relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019.
The amounts presented below for the 13-weeks and 26-weeks ended June 30, 2018 are presented here as they were originally reported.
The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 12%, contributing 83% of total revenue.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in golf and inReach product lines.
The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers.
The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products.
The marine segment gross margin increase of 200 basis points was primarily attributable to product mix.
Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was slightly lower when compared to the year-ago quarter and decreased 5% in absolute dollars.
The total absolute dollar decrease was primarily attributable to decreased cooperative advertising and point-of-sale display advertising expense in the auto segment and decreased media advertising in the fitness segment, slightly offset by increased media and cooperative advertising in the outdoor segment.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 7% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to less amortization expense associated with intangible assets.
The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported.
Research and development expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue growth and gross margin improvement.
The increase in operating income as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to improved gross margin and leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The Company recorded income tax expense of $52.1 million in the 13-week period ended June 29, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $45.7 million in the 13-week period ended June 30, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.
The Company maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.
Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).


