fls.txt
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019.
The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 12%, contributing 83% of total revenue.
The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables.
The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth across most product lines in both OEM and aftermarket categories.
Gross profit dollars in the first quarter of 2019 increased 6% primarily due to growth in net sales while gross margin decreased 100 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment gross margin increase was primarily attributable to product mix.
Advertising expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported.
Research and development expense increased 3% in absolute dollars and decreased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
This increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
Operating income increased 6% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
In the current quarter, the growth in operating income in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue and gross profit dollar growth, partially offset by increased operating expenses, as discussed above.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The Company recorded income tax expense of $26.1 million in the 13-week period ended March 30, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $24.6 million in the 13-week period ended March 31, 2018.
As a result of the above, net income for the 13-weeks ended March 30, 2019 was $140.2 million compared to $129.4 million for the 13-week period ended March 31, 2018, an increase of $10.8 million.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
Exhibit 32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Exhibit 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


