fls.txt
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
The Company is a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology.
The Company’s segments offer products through its network of independent dealers and distributors.
Adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was applied using the full retrospective method, and information for prior periods within Results of Operations have been restated accordingly.
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables.
Cost of goods sold increased 5% in absolute dollars compared to the prior year quarter.
The outdoor segment decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to product mix.
The fitness segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by product mix.
The aviation segment decrease in cost of goods as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago quarter.
Gross profit dollars in the third quarter of 2018 increased 10% while gross margin increased 110 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
Advertising expense decreased 4% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The total absolute dollar decrease was driven primarily by decreased media advertising in the auto and fitness segments, partially offset by increased media advertising in the outdoor and marine segments.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 13% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions.
The decrease in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue in the auto segment was primarily attributable to a current quarter reduction in legal related costs compared to the year-ago quarter.
Research and development expense increased $9.3 million in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
Operating income increased 13% in absolute dollars and increased 110 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The growth in operating income in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth and increased gross margins, as discussed above.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.
The hearing before the Court of Appeal is scheduled to take place on January 30, 2019.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant.
In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares.


