fls.txt
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 24%, contributing 85% of total revenue.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by adventure watches.
The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories.
Gross profit dollars in the third quarter of 2019 increased 18%, primarily due to growth in net sales along with a gross margin increase of 140 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment gross margin increase of 490 basis points was primarily attributable to lower license expense.
Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor and marine segments.
Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars.
The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments, partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions.
The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported.
Research and development expense as a percent of revenue decreased 130 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 7% in absolute dollars.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
Operating income increased 33% in absolute dollars and 380 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The 310 basis points increase to the third quarter of 2019 effective tax rate compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to a decrease in uncertain tax position reserves released due to expiring statutes of limitations in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 84% of total revenue.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in adventure watches, golf and inReach product lines.
Fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from newly acquired Tacx.
Marine segment revenue increases were driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by chartplotters and sonar products.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.


