fls.txt
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.


item2.txt
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
The Company’s segments offer products through its network of independent dealers and distributors.
Adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was applied using the full retrospective method, and information for prior periods within Results of Operations have been restated accordingly.
The current quarter marine increase of 9% was primarily driven by sales of the newly acquired Navionics business.
Fitness segment revenues increased 20% from the year-ago quarter, primarily driven by advanced wearables and newly introduced products.
Cost of goods sold increased 6% in absolute dollars compared to the prior year quarter.
The aviation segment increase in cost of goods was largely consistent with the increase in sales.
Gross profit dollars in the first quarter of 2018 increased 14% while gross margin increased 190 basis points compared to the first quarter of 2017.
Advertising expense decreased 20% in absolute dollars compared to the year-ago quarter.
The overall decrease in absolute dollars was driven primarily by decreased cooperative advertising associated with customer mix and fitness media, partially offset by an increase in outdoor media.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 15% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from prior year acquisitions in the first quarter of 2018.
All segments, except for marine, were relatively flat as a percent of revenues.
The marine segment increase as a percent of revenues was primarily due to expenses resulting from prior year acquisitions in the first quarter of 2018.
In absolute dollars, research and development costs increased $19.8 million when compared with the year-ago quarter and increased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
Operating income increased 22% in absolute dollars and increased 180 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the first quarter of 2017.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.


item4.txt
Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits Exhibit 31.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
Exhibit 32.1Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


part2.txt
Items (a) and (b) are not applicable.
In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares.
On December 31, 2017, the share repurchase authorization expired with no additional shares having been repurchased during the first quarter of 2018.
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information Exhibit 31.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
Exhibit 32.1Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Exhibit 32.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


