fls.txt
The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future.


item1.txt
Daktronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) are the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts therein.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended April 28, 2018, which are contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income, comprehensive income, cash flows, total assets or total liabilities.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year.
Current GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party, which is an exception to the principle of comprehensive recognition of current and deferred income taxes in GAAP.
This update eliminates the exception by requiring entities to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
The adoption of ASU 2016-16 did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASU 2014-09 and related guidance supersedes revenue recognition requirements under FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605 and related industry specific revenue recognition guidance.
Revenue Recognition" for more information.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.


item2.txt
our competition; (ii.)
our financing plans; (iii.)
our growth strategy and operating strategy; (v.) the declaration and payment of dividends; (vi.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the seasonality of our business; (x.)
the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.)
the amount and frequency of warranty claims; (xii.)
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit.
Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Outdoor installations sales can be impacted by outdoor weather conditions and the construction season.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of October 27, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.


part2.txt
Item 1.


