fls.txt
The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future.


item1.txt
Daktronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) are the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts therein.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday.
In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period.
Fiscal 2020 will be a 53-week year; therefore, the quarter ended August 3, 2019 contains operating results for 14 weeks while the quarter ended July 28, 2018 contains operating results for 13 weeks.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.
ASU 2016-02 requires lessors to account for leases using an approach that is substantially equivalent to existing guidance for sales-type leases, direct financing leases and operating leases.
We elected the "comparatives under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 840 option" as a transitional method, which allows us to initially apply the new lease requirements at the effective date.
Comparative periods were not adjusted and will continue to be reported in accordance with prior lease guidance under ASC 840.
We elected the package of practical expedients, which permits us not to reassess our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
This adoption did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows, and there was no adjustment to retained earnings.
See "Note 12.


item2.txt
our financing plans; (iii.)
our growth and operating strategies; (v.) the declaration and payment of dividends; (vi.)
the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the seasonality of our business; (x.)
the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.)
Risk Factors” and “Part II, Item 7.
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Our third fiscal quarter tends to be a slower quarter because it includes two holidays, it is affected by sports seasonality, and generally less outdoor construction work occurs due to weather conditions.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of August 3, 2019, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.


part2.txt
Item 1.


