fls.txt
The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future.


item1.txt
Daktronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) are the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts therein.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income, comprehensive income, cash flows, total assets or total liabilities.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period.
The nine months ended January 26, 2019 and January 27, 2018, contained operating results for 39 weeks.
Current GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party, which is an exception to the principle of comprehensive recognition of current and deferred income taxes in GAAP.
This update eliminates the exception by requiring entities to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
The adoption of ASU 2016-16 did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
Subsequently, the FASB also issued ASUs 2016-08, 2016-10, 2016-12, and 2016-20 to give further guidance to revenue recognition matters.
ASU 2014-09 and related guidance supersedes revenue recognition requirements under FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605 and related industry specific revenue recognition guidance.
It defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle that allows companies to use more judgment and make more estimates than under current guidance.
Revenue Recognition" for more information.


item2.txt
our competition; (ii.)
our financing plans; (iii.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the seasonality of our business; (x.)
the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.)
the amount and frequency of warranty claims; (xii.)
resolution of litigation contingencies; and (xiv.)
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
construction-type contracts, costs to be incurred for product warranties and extended maintenance contracts, bad debts, excess and obsolete inventory, income taxes, share-based compensation, goodwill impairment and contingencies.
Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit.
Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 5.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of January 26, 2019, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.


part2.txt
Item 1.


