fls.txt
The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future.


item1.txt
Daktronics, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) is the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts therein.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- to 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
The equity method requires us to report our share of losses up to our equity investment amount.
Cash paid for investments in affiliates is included in the Purchases of equity investment line item in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
We early adopted ASU 2016-15 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Adoption of ASU 2016-15 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, restricted cash will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts presented on the statements of cash flows.
A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2017-04 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.


item2.txt
our competition; (ii.)
our financing plans; (iii.)
our growth strategy and operating strategy; (v.) the declaration and payment of dividends; (vi.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the seasonality of our business; (x.)
the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.)
the amount and frequency of warranty claims; and (xii.)
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
Risk Factors” and "Item 7.
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit.


item3.txt
If we believed currency risk in any foreign location is significant, we would utilize foreign exchange hedging contracts to manage our exposure to the currency fluctuations.
Over the long term, net sales to international markets are expected to increase as a percentage of total net sales and, consequently, a greater portion of our business could be denominated in foreign currencies.


item4.txt
Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of January 27, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.


part2.txt
Item 1.


