 The Company recorded amortization expense of $6.6 million and $5.9 million during the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Amortization expense is generally recorded on a straight-line basis and is expected to be approximately $26.2 million in fiscal 2018, $26.1 million in fiscal 2019, $25.8 million in fiscal 2020, $23.0 million in fiscal 2021, and $21.2 million in fiscal 2022. 
Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware. The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”). The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations. The Company has one reportable segment serving the North American lighting market and select international markets.
The Company expects to publish a policy on sustainability, which it anticipates will be available on the Company’s website in the near future. The policy will describe and formalize the Company's ESG policies, including key performance indicators related to ESG matters that are material to the business.
1.Description of Business and Basis of Presentation
Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings, partially offset by interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents.
The Company has an implementation team tasked with identifying potential differences that will result from applying the new revenue recognition standard to the Company's contracts with its customers. The implementation team reports the findings and progress of the project to management on a frequent basis and to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The implementation team has completed its initial phase of contract reviews and continues to evaluate the results of those reviews with respect to potential changes from adopting the new standard on the Company's consolidated financial statements. Management anticipates the most significant changes will relate to additional deferral of revenue recognition for certain services provided and the gross presentation of right of return assets and refund liabilities for sales with a right of return. Based on the current portfolio of the Company's revenue generating activities, these changes are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Additionally, the implementation team is in the process of identifying appropriate changes to the Company's business processes, systems, and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard. Based on the implementation team's current findings and the overall expected immaterial impact of adoption, the implementation team is currently evaluating which adoption method would provide the most meaningful information to the Company's stakeholders. The Company will adopt the requirements of the new standard no later than the effective date of September 1, 2018.
The Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio (“Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization expense (“EBITDA”), as such terms are defined in the Revolving Credit Facility agreement. These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period. The Revolving Credit Facility allows for a Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50, subject to certain conditions defined in the financing agreement. 
As of November 30, 2017, the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of November 30, 2017, the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $10.2 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under the Company's casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for the Company’s industrial revenue bond (not an outstanding amount under the Revolving Credit Facility). At November 30, 2017, the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $244.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. 
Item 1.Financial Statements
The industrial revenue bond is carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period. The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, the Company estimates that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of November 30, 2017 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
Further discussion of the Company’s stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.Adjusted operating profit decreased by $9.3 million, or 6.5%, to $133.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with $143.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Adjusted operating profit margin decreased 90 basis points to 15.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with 16.8% for the year-ago period.
Net sales were $842.8 million for the three months ended November 30, 2017 compared with $851.2 million reported for the three months ended November 30, 2016, a decrease of $8.4 million, or 1.0%. For the three months ended November 30, 2017, the Company reported net income of $71.5 million, a decrease of $10.2 million, or 12.5%, compared with $81.7 million for the three months ended November 30, 2016. For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, diluted earnings per share decreased 8.6% to $1.70 compared with $1.86 reported in the year-ago period.
Management believes that the execution of the Company's strategy will provide opportunities for continued profitable growth. The Company's strategy is to capitalize on market growth opportunities by continuing to expand and leverage its industry-leading lighting and building management solutions portfolio combined with its extensive market presence and financial strength.
Net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased $10.2 million to $71.5 million from $81.7 million reported for the prior-year period. The decrease in net income resulted primarily from lower operating profit and lower miscellaneous income, partially offset by a smaller provision for income taxes. Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended November 30, 2017 decreased $0.16 to $1.70 compared with diluted earnings per share of $1.86 for the prior-year period.Item 5.Other Information
 (c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017. 
Item 1a.Risk Factors