fls.txt
These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “aims,” “estimates” and similar expressions.


item1.txt
The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business.


item2.txt
On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation, a provider of advanced end-to-end security and surveillance solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, surveillance cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million.
Our products and services help government, public safety and commercial customers improve their operations through increased effectiveness, efficiency, and safety of their mobile workforces.
Net sales were $1.9 billion in the third quarter of 2018, a $217 million, or 13%, increase compared to the third quarter of 2017.
The net sales increase for the third quarter of 2018 included $145 million from acquisitions and $19 million from the adoption of ASC 606 (see Note 1 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by $9 million from unfavorable foreign currency rates.
The Services and Software segment net sales increased in every region.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by acquisitions within the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services.
Net interest expense was $59 million in the third quarter of 2018 and $52 million in the third quarter of 2017.
The increase in net interest expense in the third quarter of 2018 as compared to the third quarter of 2017 was a result of increases in outstanding debt issued during 2018.
Net sales were $5.1 billion in the first nine months of 2018, a $666 million, or 15%, increase compared to the first nine months of 2017.
The net sales increase for the first nine months of 2018 included $347 million from acquisitions, $58 million from the adoption of ASC 606 (see Note 1 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), and $56 million from favorable foreign currency rates.
Within the Products and Systems Integration segment, Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP and Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in every region.
The Services and Software segment increased in every region.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by acquisitions within the Software business, the acquisition of Interexport in Services and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by the acquisition of Kodiak Networks in the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and the Software businesses.
Gross margin was $2.4 billion, or 47.0% of net sales, in the first nine months of 2018, compared to $2.1 billion, or 46.4% of net sales, in the first nine months of 2017.
The increase in net interest expense in the first nine months of 2018 as compared to the first nine months of 2017 was a result of increases in outstanding debt.
The segment’s net sales increased $114 million, to $1.3 billion in the third quarter of 2018, as compared to $1.2 billion during the third quarter of 2017.
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 74% of the segment’s net sales in the third quarter of 2018, compared to 73% of the segment's net sales in the third quarter of 2017.
The segment had operating earnings of $183 million in the third quarter of 2018, compared to $266 million in the third quarter of 2017.


item3.txt
As of September 29, 2018, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $782 million, compared to $507 million outstanding as of December 31, 2017.
Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements included in: (1) “Financial Statements,” about: (a) the recognition of revenue in future periods, and (b) our ability to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash, (2) “Management's Discussion and Analysis,” about: (a) trends affecting our business, including: (i) the impact of global economic and political conditions (ii) the impact of acquisitions on our business, (iii) the growth of our Services and Software segment and the resulting impact on operating margin, (iv) the focus on Services and Software and our expected growth opportunities, (b) the accuracy of the reserve estimate related to an environmental liability, (c) our business strategies and expected results, (d) future payments, charges, use of accruals and expected cost-saving benefits associated with our productivity improvement plans, reorganization of business programs, and employee separation costs, (e) our ability and cost to repatriate funds, (f) our ability to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash, (g) our ability and cost to access the capital markets at our current ratings, (h) our ability to borrow and the amount available under our credit facilities, (i) our plans with respect to the level of outstanding debt, (j) the return of capital to shareholders through dividends and/or repurchasing shares, (k) the adequacy of our cash balances to meet current operating requirements, (l) potential contractual damages claims, and (m) the outcome and effect of ongoing and future legal proceedings, (3) The impact of new FASB Accounting Standards Updates on our financial statements, (4) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” about the impact of foreign currency exchange risks, (5) "Controls and Procedures," about the implementation of our enterprise resource planning systems, and (6) “Legal Proceedings,” about the ultimate disposition of pending legal matters.


item4.txt
We have made appropriate changes to our internal controls over financial reporting as we have implemented the new system.
We plan to continue to migrate the remaining parts of the business off regional systems as we work towards a single global platform.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Item 2.
None.


