fls.txt
These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “aims,” “estimates” and similar expressions.


item1.txt
The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business.


item2.txt
Item 2.
On July 11, 2019, we acquired WatchGuard, Inc. ("WatchGuard"), a provider of in-car and body-worn video solutions for $271 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $16 million that will be expensed over an average service period of two years.
On March 11, 2019, we announced that we acquired Avtec, Inc. ("Avtec"), a provider of dispatch communication equipment for U.S. public safety and commercial customers for a purchase price of $136 million in cash, net of cash acquired.
On January 7, 2019, we announced that we acquired VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location for $445 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $38 million that will be expensed over an average service period of one year.
The acquisition was settled with $231 million of cash, net of cash acquired, and 1.4 million of shares issued at a fair value of $160 million for a purchase price of $391 million.
On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation ("Avigilon"), a provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million in cash, net of cash acquired, debt assumed, and transaction costs paid.
On March 7, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc. ("Plant"), the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million in cash, net of cash acquired.
The Services and Software segment’s net sales represented 33% of our consolidated net sales in the second quarter of 2019 and 32% in the second quarter of 2018.
•higher margins within the Services and Software segment primarily driven by operational efficiencies in service delivery costs of our Services portfolio and higher margin contribution within our Software portfolio from acquisitions.
The reduction of Other charges in the second quarter of 2019 as compared to the second quarter of 2018 is due to $8 million of net reorganization of business charges in the second quarter of 2019 as compared to $18 million in the second quarter of 2018, (see further detail in “Reorganization of Businesses” section).
The decrease in net interest expense in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018 was a result of less average debt outstanding as of and for the period ending June 29, 2019 as compared to the period ending June 30, 2018.
Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $3 million in the second quarter of 2019 compared to losses of $1 million during the second quarter of 2018.
The net gain in the second quarter of 2019 was related to the sale of our two-way communications rental business while the net losses in the second quarter of 2018 were related to the sale of various strategic investments.
The Services and Software segment’s net sales represented 34% of our consolidated net sales in the first half of 2019 and 2018.
•higher margins within the Services and Software segment primarily driven by higher margin contribution within our Software portfolio from acquisitions and operational efficiencies in service delivery costs of our Services portfolio.
Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $4 million in the first half of 2019 compared to $10 million during the first half of 2018.
The net gains in the first half of 2019 were related to the sale of our two-way communications rental business and various equity method investments.
Included in the $12 million were charges of $18 million related to employee separation costs, partially offset by $6 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.
Cash payments for employee severance in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $28 million in the first half of 2019 and employee severance and exit costs were $36 million in the first half of 2018.
As of January 1, 2019, accruals for exit costs are included in Operating lease liabilities with an offsetting impairment to our right-of use assets ("ROU"), all within our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (see Note 3 of our condensed consolidated financial statements).


item3.txt
As of June 29, 2019, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $1.0 billion, compared to $819 million outstanding as of December 31, 2018.
Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements included in: (1) “Management's Discussion and Analysis,” about: (a) the impact of global economic and political conditions, (b) the impact of acquisitions on our business, (c) our business strategies and expected results, (d) future payments, charges, use of accruals and expected cost-saving benefits associated with our productivity improvement plans, reorganization of business programs, and employee separation costs, (e) our ability and cost to repatriate funds, (f) our ability to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash, (g) our ability and cost to access the capital markets at our current ratings, (h) our ability to borrow and the amount available under our credit facilities, (i) the return of capital to shareholders through dividends and/or repurchasing shares, (j) the adequacy of our cash balances to meet current operating requirements, and (k) the outcome and effect of ongoing and future legal proceedings, (2) The impact of new FASB Accounting Standards Updates on our financial statements, (3) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” about the impact of foreign currency exchange risks, (4) “Legal Proceedings,” about the ultimate disposition of pending legal matters.


item4.txt
None.
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Item 2.
These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a) (2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation.
None.


