fls.txt
These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “aims,” “estimates” and similar expressions.
We can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.


item1.txt
The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business.


item2.txt
Item 2.
On January 7, 2019, we announced that we acquired VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location for $445 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $38 million that will be expensed over an average service period of one year.
The acquisition was settled with $231 million of cash, net of cash acquired, and 1.4 million of shares issued at a fair value of $160 million for a purchase price of $391 million.
This acquisition expands our command center software portfolio under the Services and Software segment.
On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation ("Avigilon"), a provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million in cash.
Our technology platforms in communications, software, video, and services make cities safer and help communities and businesses thrive.
The Products and Systems Integration segment’s net sales represented 65% of our consolidated net sales in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018.
The Services and Software segment’s net sales represented 35% of our consolidated net sales in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018.
•94% growth in Software, driven primarily by revenue from the acquisitions of VaaS, Avigilon, and Plant, and growth in our command center software suite.
Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $1 million in the first quarter of 2019 compared to $11 million during the first quarter of 2018.
Cash payments for employee severance in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $14 million in the first quarter of 2019 and employee severance and exit costs were $15 million in the first quarter of 2018.
As of January 1, 2019, accruals for exit costs are included in Operating lease liabilities with an offsetting impairment to our right-of use assets ("ROU"), all within our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (see Note 3 of our condensed consolidated financial statements).
•a $500 million debt-funded voluntary contribution to our U.S. pension plan in the first quarter of 2018; At March 30, 2019, the Company had retained servicing obligations for $944 million of long-term receivables, compared to $970 million at December 31, 2018.
We had outstanding long-term debt of $5.3 billion, including the current portions of $28 million and $31 million at March 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
These proceeds were then used to make a $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan in the first quarter of 2018.
As of March 30, 2019, we had $800 million of 2.0% Senior Convertible Notes outstanding with Silver Lake Partners which mature in September 2020 and are fully convertible.
As of March 30, 2019, we had a $2.2 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving credit facility scheduled to mature in April 2022 (the "2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement").
An annual facility fee is payable on the undrawn amount of the credit line.
We must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement.


item3.txt
As of March 30, 2019, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $897 million, compared to $819 million outstanding as of December 31, 2018.
Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements included in: (1) “Financial Statements,” about: (a) the recognition of revenue in future periods, and (b) our ability to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash, (2) “Management's Discussion and Analysis,” about: (a) trends affecting our business, including: (i) the impact of global economic and political conditions (ii) the impact of acquisitions on our business, (iii) the growth of our Services and Software segment and the resulting impact on operating margin, (iv) the focus on Services and Software and our expected growth opportunities, (b) the accuracy of the reserve estimate related to an environmental liability, (c) the expectation that we will sign an agreement with the U.K. Home Office for ESN during the second quarter of 2019, (d) our business strategies and expected results, (e) future payments, charges, use of accruals and expected cost-saving benefits associated with our productivity improvement plans, reorganization of business programs, and employee separation costs, (f) our ability and cost to repatriate funds, (g) our ability to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash, (h) our ability and cost to access the capital markets at our current ratings, (i) our ability to borrow and the amount available under our credit facilities, (j) our plans with respect to the level of outstanding debt, (k) the return of capital to shareholders through dividends and/or repurchasing shares, (l) the adequacy of our cash balances to meet current operating requirements, (m) potential contractual damages claims, and (n) the outcome and effect of ongoing and future legal proceedings, (3) The impact of new FASB Accounting Standards Updates on our financial statements, (4) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” about the impact of foreign currency exchange risks, (5) "Controls and Procedures," about the implementation of our enterprise resource planning systems, and (6) “Legal Proceedings,” about the ultimate disposition of pending legal matters.


item4.txt
None.
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Item 2.
These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation.
None.


