fls.txt
These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “aims,” “estimates” and similar expressions.


item1.txt
The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business.
The accounting for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash or in shares of common stock could have a material effect on our reported financial results.


item2.txt
Item 2.
On September 5, 2019, we extended our strategic partnership with Silver Lake with new $1.0 billion 1.75% senior convertible notes.
In exchange, we settled the outstanding $800 million 2.00% senior convertible notes with the issuance of 5.5 million shares and $1.1 billion in cash, of which, $600 million was paid subsequent to quarter end.
On July 11, 2019, we acquired WatchGuard, Inc. ("WatchGuard"), a provider of in-car and body-worn video solutions for $271 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $16 million that will be expensed over an average service period of two years.
On January 7, 2019, we announced that we acquired VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location for $445 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $38 million that will be expensed over an average service period of one year.
The acquisition was settled with $231 million of cash, net of cash acquired, and 1.4 million of shares issued at a fair value of $160 million for a purchase price of $391 million.
On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation ("Avigilon"), a provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million in cash, net of cash acquired, debt assumed, and transaction costs paid.
$155 million in the third quarter of 2019, compared to $111 million in the third quarter of 2018.
The Services and Software segment’s net sales represented 32% of our consolidated net sales in the third quarter of 2019 and 31% in the third quarter of 2018.
•a decline in the EMEA region of 1% primarily due to large system deployments in the Middle East in the third quarter of 2018 and currency headwinds, partially offset by growth within Europe.
•5% growth in Services, driven by growth in software and hardware maintenance revenue as well as managed services revenue, inclusive of acquisitions, and partially offset by currency headwinds.
The reduction of Other charges in the third quarter of 2019 as compared to the third quarter of 2018 is primarily due to a $57 million environmental reserve expense that was recorded in the third quarter of 2018 and $15 million of net reorganization of business charges in the third quarter of 2019 as compared to $21 million in the third quarter of 2018 (see further detail in “Reorganization of Businesses” section).
The decrease in net interest expense in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 was a result of less average debt outstanding as of and for the period ending September 28, 2019 and higher cash balances generating more interest income as compared to the period ending September 29, 2018.
The net gain of $6 million in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily related to the sale of one strategic investment.
The Services and Software segment’s net sales represented 34% of our consolidated net sales in the first nine months of 2019 and 33% in the first nine months of 2018.
•higher margins within Services and Software primarily driven by higher margin contribution within our Software portfolio from acquisitions and operational efficiencies in service delivery costs of our Services portfolio.
The increase in net interest expense in the first nine months of 2019 compared to the first nine months of 2018 was a result of more average debt outstanding as of and for the period ending September 28, 2019 as compared to the period ending September 29, 2018.
Cash payments for employee severance in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $44 million in the first nine months of 2019 and employee severance costs were $48 million in the first nine months of 2018.


item3.txt
As of September 28, 2019, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $1.1 billion, compared to $819 million outstanding as of December 31, 2018.
Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements included in: (1) “Management's Discussion and Analysis,” about: (a) the impact of global economic and political conditions, (b) the impact of acquisitions on our business, (c) our business strategies and expected results, (d) future payments, charges, use of accruals and expected cost-saving benefits associated with our productivity improvement plans, reorganization of business programs, and employee separation costs, (e) our ability and cost to repatriate funds, (f) our ability to settle the principal amount of the New Senior Convertible Notes in cash, (g) our ability and cost to access the capital markets at our current ratings, (h) our ability to borrow and the amount available under our credit facilities, (i) the return of capital to shareholders through dividends and/or repurchasing shares, (j) the adequacy of our cash balances to meet current operating requirements, and (k) the outcome and effect of ongoing and future legal proceedings, (2) The impact of new FASB Accounting Standards Updates on our financial statements, (3) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” about the impact of foreign currency exchange risks, (4) “Legal Proceedings,” about the ultimate disposition of pending legal matters.


item4.txt
None.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Under U.S. GAAP, an entity must separately account for the debt component and the embedded conversion option of convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash or in shares of common stock upon conversion, such as our New Senior Convertible Notes, in a manner that reflects the issuer’s effective interest cost.
As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the discount over the term of the New Senior Convertible Notes.
Under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the New Senior Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash are evaluated for their impact on earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the New Senior Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the New Senior Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount.
Under the treasury stock method the number of shares outstanding for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share includes the number of shares that would be required to settle the excess of the conversion value of the New Senior Convertible Notes, if any, over the principal amounts of the New Senior Convertible Notes (which would be settled in cash).


