fls.txt



item1.txt
Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets, offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of j2 Global and its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with instructions for Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves.
Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate and governmental debt securities.
j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale securities are those investments j2 Global does not intend to hold to maturity and can be sold.
Any unrealized gains or losses will be reported in current earnings (see Note 5 - Investments).
j2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance.
820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements.
As of June 30, 2018, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to j2 Global.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less.
The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment.
The Company may use various valuation techniques depending on the terms and conditions of the contingent consideration including a Monte-Carlo simulation.
liability capped by the contractual maximum of the contingent earn-out obligation.


item2.txt
For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements.
◦Sustain growth or profitability, particularly in light of an uncertain U.S. or worldwide economy and the related impact on customer acquisition and retention rates, customer usage levels, and credit and debit card payment declines; j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, “the Company”, “our”, “us” or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services.
Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
In addition to growing our business organically, on a regular basis we acquire businesses to grow our customer bases, expand and diversify our service offerings, enhance our technologies, acquire skilled personnel and enter into new markets.
Our consolidated revenues are currently generated from three basic business models, each with different financial profiles and variability.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof.


item4.txt



part2.txt
See Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1) for information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved.
Item 1A.
The 10-K Risk Factors are not the only ones we face.
The SEC staff acknowledged the challenges companies face incorporating the effects of tax reform by their financial reporting deadlines and issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.


