item1.txt
2018-16,  “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard permits the use of the Overnight Index Swap Rate (“OIS”) based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes under Topic 815 in addition to the interest rates on direct treasury obligations of the U.S. government, the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) swap rate, the OIS rate based on the Federal Funds Effective Rate and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap Rate. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
2016-02, “Leases”. This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted ASU 
2016-02 on January 1, 2019, and used the effective date as its date of initial application. As such, the Company did not adjust prior period amounts. The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs for leases that commenced prior to the effective date. 
The Company implemented internal controls and a lease accounting information system to enable preparation on adoption. Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of initially applying this new standard, resulting in the addition of $71,042 of 
right-of-use asset upon adoption of the standard. For additional information on the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting this standard, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. 
non-real estate leases are mainly comprised of automobiles but also include copiers, printers and other lower-valued items. The Company does not have any finance leases. 
right-of-use  asset and lease liability, and are reflected as expenses in the periods incurred. Such payments primarily include common area maintenance charges and increases in rent payments that are driven by factors such as future changes in an index (e.g., the Consumer Price Index). 
right-of-use asset of $67,632, short-term lease liability of $20,575 and long-term lease liability of $47,294 were reflected on the balance sheet as of September 30, 2019. 
available-for-sale  investments as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, reflect the inclusion within short-term investments of investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase. Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months. Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets.
Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments or securities or derivative contracts that are valued using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.  
Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. 
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.
Available-for-sale investments consisted of time deposits, certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptance drafts, asset-backed securities (which include auto loans, credit card receivables and equipment trust receivables), commercial paper, corporate obligations, U.S. treasury obligations, U.S. agency obligations and group insurance contracts. 
Israeli pension assets represent investments in mutual funds, government securities and other time deposits. These investments are set aside for the retirement benefit of the employees at the Company’s Israeli subsidiaries. These funds are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  
non-controlling equity investment in a privately held company. The Company elected the measurement alternative for this investment without readily determinable fair values and for which the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant influence. This investment is accounted for under the cost method of accounting. Under the cost method of accounting, the 
By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. The Company enters into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions, for which no collateral is required. The Company has policies to monitor the credit risk of these counterparties. While there can be no assurance, the Company does not anticipate any material 
was fixed at 2.309% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 1.75% at September 30, 2019. At September 30, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $300,000 and 
The Company hedges a portion of its forecasted foreign currency-denominated intercompany sales of inventory, over a maximum period of eighteen months, using forward foreign exchange contracts accounted for as cash-flow hedges related to Japanese, South Korean, British, Euro and Taiwanese currencies. To the extent these derivatives are effective in 


item4.txt



part2.txt
A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”). The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The Court consolidated the actions, and plaintiffs later filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No. 


