item1.txt
internal-use software license). The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments to this update. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently evaluating the requirements of this ASU and adoption could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
The Company has lease arrangements with lease and non-lease components, has elected to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component, and has allocated all of the contract consideration to the lease component only. The Company has existing net leases in which the non-lease components (e.g. common area maintenance, maintenance, consumables, etc.) are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred. Therefore, non-lease components are not included in the right-of-use asset and lease liability and are reflected as expenses in the periods incurred. 
available-for-sale  investments as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, reflect the inclusion within short-term investments of investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase. Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months. Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets. 
“ex-dividend.” The cost of marketable securities sold is determined by the specific identification method. Realized gains or losses are reflected in income and were not material for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.   
Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments or securities or derivative contracts that are valued using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.   
Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.   
Available-for-sale investments consisted of time deposits, certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptance drafts, asset-backed securities (which include auto loans, credit card receivables and equipment trust receivables), commercial paper, corporate obligations, U.S. treasury obligations, U.S. agency obligations and group insurance contracts.
Israeli pension assets represent investments in mutual funds, government securities and other time deposits. These investments are set aside for the retirement benefit of the employees at the Company’s Israeli subsidiaries. These funds are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 
By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. The Company enters into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions, for which no collateral is required. The Company has policies to monitor the credit risk of these counterparties. While there can be no assurance, the Company does not anticipate any material 
eighteen months, using forward foreign exchange contracts accounted for as cash-flow hedges related to Japanese, South Korean, British, Euro and Taiwanese currencies. To the extent these derivatives are effective in off-setting the variability of the hedged cash flows, and otherwise meet the hedge accounting criteria, changes in the derivatives’ fair value are not included in current earnings but are included in OCI in stockholders’ equity. These changes in fair value will subsequently be reclassified into earnings, as applicable, when the forecasted transaction occurs. To the extent that a previously designated hedging transaction is no longer an effective hedge, any ineffectiveness measured in the hedging relationship is recorded currently in earnings in the period it occurs. The cash flows resulting from forward exchange contracts are classified in the consolidated statements of cash flows as part of cash flows from operating activities. The Company does not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
On February 1, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “Merger Agreement”), by and among the Company, EAS Equipment, Inc., formerly a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and ESI (the “ESI Merger”). At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax.  
The aggregate consideration was $1,032,671, which excludes related transaction fees and expenses, and non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of $30,630, for a total purchase consideration of $1,063,301. The Company funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of the Company’s available cash on hand and the proceeds from the Company’s senior secured term loan facility described in Note 11.  
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total estimated acquisition consideration is allocated to the acquired tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities of ESI based on their fair values as of the acquisition date. Any excess of the acquisition consideration over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. The Company expects that none of such goodwill and intangible assets will be deductible for tax purposes.   
The fair value write-up of acquired finished goods inventory was $7,624, the amount of which will be expensed over the period during which the acquired inventory is sold. Accordingly, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, the Company recorded $2,484 and $7,624, respectively, of incremental cost of sales charges associated with the fair value write-up of inventory acquired in the ESI Merger. 
The fair value write-up of acquired property, plant and equipment of $39,267 will be amortized over the estimated useful life of the applicable assets, excluding the fair value write-up in the value of land. Property, plant and equipment is valued at its value-in-use, unless there was a known plan to dispose of the asset. 
The Company believes the amount of goodwill relative to identifiable intangible assets relates to several factors, including broadening its position in key industrial end markets to complementary solutions, and leveraging component and systems expertise to provide robust solutions to meet customer evolving technology needs. 
Certain executives from ESI had severance provisions in their respective ESI employment agreements. The agreements included terms that were accounted for as dual-trigger arrangements. Through the Company’s acquisition accounting, the expense relating to these benefits was recognized in the combined entity’s financial statements. The Company recorded costs of $2,701 and $14,023 in acquisition and integration costs as compensation expense and stock-based compensation expense, respectively, for the six months ended June 30, 2019 associated with these severance provisions. The restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights that were eligible for accelerated vesting if the executive exercised his or her rights but were not issued as of each reporting period-end, were excluded from the computation of basic earnings per share and included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for such reporting period.  
The exclusion of acquisition costs and inventory step-up amortization from the three and six month period ended June 30, 2019 and the addition of these items to the three and six month period ended June 30, 2018.   


item2.txt
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for our customers. Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, 
sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions. We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training. Our primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, research and defense. 
On February 1, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “ESI Merger”). At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax. We paid the former ESI stockholders aggregate consideration of approximately $1.033 billion, excluding related transaction fees and expenses, and 
non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of approximately $31 million for a total purchase consideration of approximately $1.063 billion. We funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of our available cash on hand and the proceeds from our senior secured term loan facility as described below. 
right-of-use assets, short-term lease liabilities and long-term lease liabilities. We have elected not to recognize on the balance sheet leases with terms of one year or less. Operating lease liabilities and their corresponding 
right-of-use asset may be required for items such as incentives received. In calculating the present value of future lease payments, we utilize our incremental borrowing rates, which are the rates incurred to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment. We have elected to utilize a single blended interest rate based on currencies, geographies and lease terms that comprise the lease portfolio. 
non-lease  components of each of our operating leases as a single lease component and allocate all of the contract consideration to the lease component only. The lease component results in an operating 
Gross profit as a percentage of net product revenues decreased by 4.1 and 4.6 percentage points for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year, primarily due lower revenue volumes and lower factory utilization, partially offset by favorable product mix.  
Gross profit as a percentage of net service revenues decreased by 1.0 percentage point for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to higher material costs and higher excess and obsolete inventory charges, offset by favorable absorption. Gross profit as a percentage of net service revenues decreased by 1.3 percentage points for the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to unfavorable mix and higher material costs, offset by favorable absorption.  
Our research and development efforts are primarily focused on developing and improving our instruments, components, subsystems and process control solutions to improve process performance and productivity.  


item4.txt



part2.txt
 A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”). The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The Court consolidated the actions, and plaintiffs later filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No.
 A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Newport Merger Agreement. The amended complaint alleged Newport’s former board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders and that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub had aided and abetted these breaches. It sought monetary damages, including


