item1.txt
In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, “Income Statement – Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220).” The amendments in this standard allow a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Act. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect adoption of this ASU to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard better aligns an entity’s risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect adoption of this ASU to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, “Business Combinations (Topic 805)-Clarifying the Definition of a Business.” This standard clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. This standard also provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities is a business. Because the current definition of a business is interpreted broadly and can be difficult to apply, stakeholders indicated that analyzing transactions is inefficient and costly and that the definition does not permit the use of reasonable judgment. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this ASU during the three month period ended March 31, 2018. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, “Income Taxes (Topic 740)-Intra-Entity Transfer of Assets Other Than Inventory.” This standard requires that an entity recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs as opposed to when the assets have been sold to an outside party. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this ASU during the three month period ended March 31, 2018. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230)-Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” This standard addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of addressing the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under Topic 230. The  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet. In transition, lessees and lessors are required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The FASB issued additional updates to the new standard in Topic 842 relating to a practical expedients for land easements (Update 2018-01 in January 2018). The Company has reviewed the requirements of this standard and has formulated a plan for implementation. The management team has communicated its approach to the Audit Committee and will provide regular updates as appropriate. The Company is currently working at accumulating a complete population of leases from all of its locations. The Company has selected a software repository to track all of its lease agreements and to assist in the reporting and disclosure requirements required by the standard. The Company will continue to assess and disclose the impact that this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements, disclosures and related controls, when known.  
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, “Financial Instruments-Overall (Subtopic 825-10)-Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” This ASU provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. The new standard revises accounting related to equity investments and the presentation of certain fair value changes for financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value. Among other things, it amends the presentation and disclosure requirements of equity securities that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method. Changes in the fair value of these equity securities will be recognized directly in net income. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this ASU during the three month period ended March 31, 2018. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” (“ASC 606”). This ASU provides for a single comprehensive model to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and has replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP. This ASU is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2017. The two permitted transition methods under the new standard are the full retrospective method, in which case the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the date of initial application. The Company used the modified retrospective method upon adoption in the first quarter of 2018. The FASB issued additional updates to the new revenue standard in Topic 606 relating to reporting revenue on a gross versus net basis (Update 2016-08 in March 2016), identifying performance obligations and licensing arrangements (Update 2016-10 in April 2016), narrow-scope improvements and practical expedients (Update 2016-12 in May 2016), technical corrections and improvements (Update 2016-20 in December 2016), and SEC Updates (Update 2017-13 in September 2017 and Update 2017-14 in November 2017). The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements as described further in Note 3.  
Revenue under ASC 606 is recognized when or as obligations under the terms of a contract with the Company’s customer have been satisfied and control has transferred to the customer. The majority of the Company’s performance obligations, and associated revenue, are transferred to customers at a point in time, generally upon shipment of a product to the customer or receipt of the product by the customer and without significant judgments. Installation services are not significant and are usually completed in a short period of time (normally less than two weeks) and therefore, recorded at a point in time when the installation services are completed, rather than over time as they are not material. Extended warranty, service contracts, and repair services, which are transferred to the customer over time, are recorded as revenue as the services are performed. For repair services, the Company makes an accrual at quarter end based upon historical repair times within its product groups to record revenue based upon the estimated number of days completed to date, which is consistent with ratable recognition. Customized products with no alternative future use to the Company, and that have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, are also recorded over time. The Company considers this to be a faithful depiction of the transfer to the customer of revenue over time as the work or service is performed.  
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services. Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the products or services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from the Company, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the product or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Sales, value add, and other taxes the Company collects concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue. The Company’s normal payment terms are 30 to 60 days but vary by the type and location of its customers and the products or services offered. The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customer types, the Company requires payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer. None of the Company’s contracts as of March 31, 2018 contain a significant financing component. Contract assets as of January 1 and March 31, 2018 were immaterial and included in other current assets.  
The Company periodically enters into contracts with its customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with installation services or extended warranty obligations. These contracts include multiple promises that the Company evaluates to determine if the promises are separate performance obligations. Once the Company determines the performance obligations, the Company then determines the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, the Company estimates the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the expected value method or the most likely amount method depending on the method the Company expects to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled. There are no constraints on the variable consideration recorded. The Company then allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price charged separately to customers or using an expected cost-plus-margin method. The corresponding revenues are recognized when or as the related performance obligations are satisfied, which are noted above. The impact of variable consideration was immaterial during the three months ended March 31, 2018.  
The Company’s standard assurance warranty period is normally 12 to 24 months. The Company sells separately-priced service contracts and extended warranty contracts related to certain of its products, especially its laser products. The separately priced contracts generally range from 12 to 60 months. The Company normally receives payment at the inception of the contract and recognizes revenue over the term of the agreement in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in satisfying the obligations under the contract. The Company has elected to use the practical expedient related to disclosing the remaining performance obligations as of March 31, 2018, as the majority have a duration of less than one year.  
The Company monitors and tracks the amount of product returns and reduces revenue at the time of shipment for the estimated amount of future returns, based on historical experience. The Company makes estimates evaluating its allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its customers and maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based upon its historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that it has identified.  
The tables above, which show the gross unrealized gains and (losses) aggregated by investment category for available-for-sale investments as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, reflect the inclusion within short-term investments of investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase. Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months. Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets.  
Interest income is accrued as earned. Dividend income is recognized as income on the date the stock trades “ex-dividend.” The cost of marketable securities sold is determined by the specific identification method. Realized gains or losses are reflected in income and were not material for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.  
In accordance with the provisions of fair value accounting, a fair value measurement assumes that the transaction to sell an asset or transfer a liability occurs in the principal market for the asset or liability or, in the absence of a principal market, the most advantageous market for the asset or liability and defines fair value based upon an exit price model.  
 Level 2   Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments or securities or derivative contracts that are valued using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. 
In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the Company categorizes such assets and liabilities based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Company’s assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability.  


item2.txt
Our primary served markets are manufacturers of capital equipment for semiconductor manufacturing, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, as well as research and defense. We have a diverse base of customers. Approximately 57% our net revenues for both the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, were from sales to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers. Approximately 43% of our net revenues for both three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, were from other advanced manufacturing applications. These include, but are not limited to, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense.  
A significant portion of our net revenues are from sales to customers in international markets. For both periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, international net revenues accounted for approximately 50% of our total net revenues. A significant portion of our international net revenues were in Japan, South Korea, Germany, Israel and China. We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues. Long-lived assets located in the United States were $127.6 million and $124.7 million as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts. Long-lived assets located outside of the United States were $78.4 million and $78.5 million as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts.  
Revenue under ASC 606 is recognized when or as obligations under the terms of a contract with our customer have been satisfied and control has transferred to the customer. The majority of our performance obligations, and associated revenue, are transferred to customers at a point in time, generally upon shipment of a product to the customer or receipt of the product by the customer and without significant judgments. Installation services are not significant and are usually completed in a short period of time (normally less than two weeks) and therefore, recorded at a point in time when the installation services are completed, rather than over time as they are not material. Extended warranty, service contracts, and repair services, which are transferred to the customer over time, are recorded as revenue as the services are performed. For repair services, we make an accrual at quarter end based upon historical repair times within our product groups to record revenue based upon the estimated number of days completed to date, which is consistent with ratable recognition. Customized products with no alternative future use to us, and that have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, are also recorded over time. We consider this to be a faithful depiction of the transfer to the customer of revenue over time as the work or service is performed.  
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services. Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the products or services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the product or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Sales, value add, and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue. Our normal payment terms are 30 to 60 days but vary by the type and location of our customers and the products or services offered. The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer. None of our contracts as of March 31, 2018 contain a significant financing component. Contract assets as of January 1 and March 31, 2018 were immaterial and included in other current assets.  
We periodically enter into contracts with our customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with installation services or extended warranty obligations. These contracts include multiple promises that we evaluate to determine if the promises are separate performance obligations. Once we determine the performance obligations, we then determine the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the expected value method or the most likely amount method depending on the method we expect to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled. There are no constraints on the variable consideration recorded. We then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price charged separately to customers or using an expected cost-plus-margin method. The corresponding revenues are recognized when or as the related performance obligations are satisfied, which are noted above. The impact of variable consideration was immaterial during the three months ended March 31, 2018.  
Our standard assurance warranty period is normally 12 to 24 months. We sell separately-priced service contracts and extended warranty contracts related to certain of our products, especially our laser products. The separately priced contracts generally range from 12 to 60 months. We normally receive payment at the inception of the contract and recognize revenue over the term of the agreement in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in satisfying the obligations under the contract. We have elected to use the practical expedient related to disclosing the remaining performance obligations as of March 31, 2018, as the majority have a duration of less than one year.  
Service revenues consisted mainly of fees for services related to the maintenance and repair of our products, sales of spare parts, and installation and training. In 2018, we started to record the sales of spare parts in our service revenue and related cost of sales line items. Therefore, for the three months ended March 31, 2017, we re-classified $5.0 million of product revenue for spare parts from product to service revenue. Service revenues increased $8.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributed to an increase of $8.8 million in service revenues from semiconductor customers, partially offset by a net decrease of $0.4 million in service revenues from customers in other advanced markets.  
We have thousands of products, and our research and development efforts primarily consist of a large number of projects related to these products, none of which is individually material to us. Current projects typically have durations of 3 to 30 months depending upon whether the product is an enhancement of existing technology or a new product. Our current initiatives include projects to enhance the performance characteristics of older products, to develop new products and to integrate various technologies into subsystems. These projects support in large part the transition in the semiconductor industry to smaller integrated circuit geometries and in the flat panel display and solar markets to larger substrate sizes, which require more advanced process control technology. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses for personnel engaged in research and development, fees paid to consultants, material costs for prototypes and other expenses related to the design, development, testing and enhancement of our products.  
Net cash provided by operating activities was $72.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and resulted from net income of $105.1 million, which included non-cash charges of $37.9 million, offset by a net increase in working capital of $70.3 million. The net increase in working capital was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable of $37.3 million and an increase in inventories of $28.2 million, related to an increase in business activities and a decrease in accrued compensation of $32.5 million, as year-end bonuses were paid. These increases in working capital were offset by an increase in other current and non-current liabilities of $10.5 million, an increase in accounts payable of $9.3 million and an increase in income taxes of $8.8 million.  
Net cash provided by operating activities was $66.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, and resulted from net income of $65.1 million, which included non-cash charges of $36.9 million, offset by a net increase in working capital of $35.9 million. The net increase in working capital was primarily due to a decrease in accrued compensation of $16.8 million, as year-end bonuses were paid, an increase in trade accounts receivable of $15.2 million and an increase in inventories of $11.7 million, related to an increase in business activities and an increase in other current assets of $1.5 million. These increases in working capital were partially offset by an increase in income taxes of $8.1 million and an increase in other current and non-current liabilities of $1.1 million.  


part2.txt
On March 9, 2016, a putative class action lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-733154-C, was filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport for claims related to the Merger Agreement between the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub. On March 25, 2016, a second putative class action complaint captioned Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-734039-B, was filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Merger Agreement. The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that the directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices, and by omitting material information from the Proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief. On April 14, 2016, the Court granted plaintiffs’ motion to consolidate the Pincon and Chung actions.  


