item1.txt
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard better aligns an entity’s risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect adoption of this ASU to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, “Compensation-Retirement Benefits (Topic 715)-Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost.” This standard requires that an employer disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net benefit cost. This standard also provides explicit guidance on how to present the service cost component and the other components of the net benefit cost in the income statement and allows only the service cost component of net benefit cost to be eligible for capitalization. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 31, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this ASU during the three month period ended March 31, 2018. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, “Business Combinations (Topic 805)-Clarifying the Definition of a Business.” This standard clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. This standard also provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities is a business. Because the current definition of a business is interpreted broadly and can be difficult to apply, stakeholders indicated that analyzing transactions is inefficient and costly and that the definition does not permit the use of reasonable judgment. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this ASU during the three month period ended March 31, 2018. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230)-Restricted Cash,” an amendment to ASU 2016-15. This standard requires that a statement of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents and amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents. Therefore, amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years and should be applied at the time of adoption of ASU 2016-15. The Company adopted this ASU during the three month period ended March 31, 2018. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, “Income Taxes (Topic 740)-Intra-Entity Transfer of Assets Other Than Inventory.” This standard requires that an entity recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs as opposed to when the assets have been sold to an outside party. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this ASU during the three month period ended March 31, 2018. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230)-Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” This standard addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of addressing the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under Topic 230. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this ASU during the three month period ended March 31, 2018. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet. In transition, lessees and lessors have the option to either apply the standard retrospectively through a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption or they can apply the new standard to comparative periods presented. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The FASB issued additional updates to the new standard in Topic 842 (Update 2018-01 in January 2018 – Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842, Update 2018-10 – Codification Improvements to Topic 842 and Update 2018-11 in July 2018 – Targeted Improvements). The Company has reviewed the requirements of this standard and has formulated a plan for implementation. The management team has communicated its approach to the Audit Committee and will provide regular updates as appropriate. The Company is currently accumulating details on the population of leases and entering these details into a selected software database, which will be a repository and accounting solution for reporting and disclosure requirements required by the standard. The Company will continue to assess and disclose the impact that this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements, disclosures and related controls, when known. 
The Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification ASC 606 (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption. The reported results for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 guidance while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of Accounting Standards Codification 605, Revenue Recognition.  
Revenue under ASC 606 is recognized when or as obligations under the terms of a contract with the Company’s customer has been satisfied and control has transferred to the customer. The majority of the Company's performance obligations, and associated revenue, are transferred to customers at a point in time, generally upon shipment of a product to the customer or receipt of the product by the customer and without significant judgments. Installation services are not significant and are usually completed in a short period of time (normally less than two weeks) and therefore, recorded at a point in time when the installation services are completed, rather than over time as they are not material. Extended warranty, service contracts, and repair services, which are transferred to the customer over time, are recorded as revenue as the services are performed. For repair services, the Company makes an accrual at quarter end based upon historical repair times within its product groups to record revenue based upon the estimated number of days completed to date, which is consistent with ratable recognition. Customized products with no alternative future use to the Company, and that have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, are also recorded over time. The Company considers this to be a faithful depiction of the transfer to the customer of revenue over time as the work is performed or service is delivered, ratably over time.  
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services. Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the products or services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from the Company, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the product or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Sales, value add, and other taxes the Company collects concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue. The Company’s normal payment terms are 30 to 60 days but vary by the type and location of its customers and the products or services offered. The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products and services and customer types, the Company requires payment before the products or services are delivered to, or performed for, the customer. None of the Company’s contracts as of September 30, 2018 contained a significant financing component. Contract assets as of January 1 and September 30, 2018 were $3,065 and $3,951, respectively, and included in other current assets.  
The Company periodically enters into contracts with its customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with installation services or extended warranty obligations. These contracts include multiple promises that the Company evaluates to determine if the promises are separate performance obligations. Once the Company determines the performance obligations, the Company then determines the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, the Company estimates the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the expected value method or the most likely amount method depending on the method the Company expects to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled. There are no constraints on the variable  
The Company’s standard assurance warranty period is normally 12 to 24 months. The Company sells separately-priced service contracts and extended warranty contracts related to certain of its products, especially its laser products. The separately priced contracts generally range from 12 to 60 months. The Company normally receives payment at the inception of the contract and recognizes revenue over the term of the agreement in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in satisfying the obligations under the contract. The Company has elected to use the practical expedient related to disclosing the remaining performance obligations as of September 30, 2018, as the majority have a duration of less than one year.  
The tables above, which show the gross unrealized gains and (losses) aggregated by investment category for available-for-sale investments as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, reflect the inclusion within short-term investments of investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase. Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months. Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets. 
Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.  
In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the Company categorizes such assets and liabilities based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Company’s assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. 
Available-for-sale investments consisted of time deposits and drafts, certificates of deposit, bankers acceptance drafts, asset-backed securities (which include auto loans, credit card receivables and equipment trust receivables), commercial paper, corporate obligations, municipal bonds, U.S. treasury obligations, U.S. agency obligations and group insurance contracts. 


item2.txt
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity. Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, sub-micron positioning, vibration control, and optics. We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training. 
Our primary served markets are manufacturers of capital equipment for semiconductor manufacturing, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, as well as research and defense. We have a diverse base of customers. Approximately 56% and 58% of our net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were from sales to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers. 
A significant portion of our net revenues is from sales to customers in international markets. For both nine month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, international net revenues accounted for approximately 50% of our total net revenues. A significant portion of our international net revenues was from South Korea, Japan, Germany, China and Israel. We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues. Long-lived assets located in the United States were $139 million and $125 million as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts. Long-lived assets located outside of the United States were $76 million and $78 million as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts. 
On October 29, 2018, we entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”), an innovator in laser-based manufacturing solutions for the micro-machining industry. Pursuant to the merger agreement, we agreed to pay $30.00 per share in cash for all of the outstanding shares of ESI, for total cash consideration of approximately $1 billion. We intend to fund the transaction with a combination of available cash on hand and up to $650 million in committed term loan debt financing. The acquisition is expected to close in the first quarter of 2019, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals and approval by ESI’s shareholders. Our obligations to complete the acquisition are not subject to any financing condition. Also, on October 29, 2018, we entered into a commitment letter to provide for a $100 million asset-based revolving credit facility for working capital purposes to replace our existing $50 million asset-based revolving credit facility.  
Revenue under ASC 606 is recognized when or as obligations under the terms of a contract with our customer has been satisfied and control has transferred to the customer. The majority of our performance obligations, and associated revenue, are transferred to customers at a point in time, generally upon shipment of a product to the customer or receipt of the product by the customer and without significant judgments. Installation services are not significant and are usually completed in a short period of time (normally less than two weeks) and therefore, recorded at a point in time when the installation services are completed, rather than over time as they are not material. Extended warranty, service contracts, and repair services, which are transferred to the customer over time, are recorded as revenue as the services are performed. For repair services, we make an accrual at quarter end based upon historical repair times within our product groups to record revenue based upon the estimated number of days completed to date, which is consistent  
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services. Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the product or service that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the product or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Sales, value add, and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue. Our normal payment terms are 30 to 60 days but vary by the type and location of our customers and the products or services offered. The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products and services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to, or performed for, the customer. None of our contracts as of September 30, 2018 contain a significant financing component. Contract assets as of January 1 and September 30, 2018 were $3.1 million and $4.0 million, respectively, and included in other current assets. 
We periodically enter into contracts with our customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with installation services or extended warranty obligations. These contracts include multiple promises that we evaluate to determine if the promises are separate performance obligations. Once we determine the performance obligations, we then determine the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the expected value method or the most likely amount method depending on the method we expect to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled. There are no constraints on the variable consideration recorded. We then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price charged separately to customers or using an expected cost plus margin method. The corresponding revenues are recognized when or as the related performance obligations are satisfied, which are noted above. Impacts of variable consideration were immaterial during the period. 
Our standard assurance warranty period is normally 12 to 24 months. We sell separately-priced service contracts and extended warranty contracts related to certain of our products, especially our laser products. The separately priced contracts generally range from 12 to 60 months. We normally receive payment at the inception of the contract and recognize revenue over the term of the agreement in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in satisfying the obligations under the contract. We have elected to use the practical expedient related to disclosing the remaining performance obligations as of September 30, 2018, as the majority have a duration of less than one year. 
Product revenues decreased $2.6 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, due to a decrease in net product revenues from our semiconductor customers of $24.2 million, offset by an increase in net product revenues from customers in our other advanced markets of $21.6 million, primarily from our industrial technologies market. Product revenues increased $189.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, due to increases in net product revenues from customers in our other advanced markets of $110.0 million, primarily from our industrial technologies market, and an increase in in net product revenues from our semiconductor customers of $79.7 million, primarily due to volume increases. 
Service revenues consisted mainly of fees for services related to the maintenance and repair of our products, sales of spare parts, and installation and training. In 2018, we started to record the sales of spare parts in our service revenue and related cost of sales line items rather than in our product revenue and related cost of sales line items. As a result, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, we reclassified $5.8 million and $16.4 million, respectively, of product revenue for spare parts from product to service revenue. Service revenues increased $3.5 million and $20.7 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year. These increases were primarily attributed to increases in net service revenues from our semiconductor customers of $3.0 million and $18.0 million for the three and nine month periods ended  
Total international net revenues, including product and service, were $243.9 million and $812.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to $248.7 million and $703.9 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. The decreases of $4.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were primarily due to decreases in net revenues in Korea. The increase of $108.9 million in total international net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, were due to increases in net revenues in Japan, Germany, and China. 


part2.txt
In March 2016, two putative class actions lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-733154-C and Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-734039-B were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport for claims related to the Merger Agreement between the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub. The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief. On April 14, 2016, the Court consolidated the actions.  
On October 19, 2016, plaintiffs in the consolidated action filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No. A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Merger Agreement. The amended complaint contained substantially similar allegations related to Newport’s former board of directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders. The amended complaint sought monetary damages, including pre- and post-judgment interest. On June 22, 2017, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.  


