item1.txt
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard better aligns an entity’s risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases. This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019, and used the effective date as its date of initial application. As such, the Company did not adjust prior period amounts. The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs under ASU 2016-02 for leases that commenced prior to the effective date. The Company implemented internal controls and a lease accounting information system to enable  
 preparation on adoption. Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of initially applying this new standard, resulting in the addition of $71,042 of right-of-use assets and $20,192 and $54,147 of short-term and long-term lease liabilities, respectively. The right-of-use asset is net of the deferred rent liability, prepaid rent and a net favorable lease asset which were re-classified to the right-of-use asset upon adoption of the standard. For additional information on the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting this standard, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.  
The Company has lease arrangements with lease and non-lease components, has elected to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component, and has allocated all of the contract consideration to the lease component only. The Company has existing net leases in which the non-lease components (e.g. common area maintenance, maintenance, consumables, etc.) are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred. Therefore, non-lease components are not included in the right-of-use asset and lease liability and are reflected as expenses in the periods incurred.  
The tables above, which show the gross unrealized gains and (losses) aggregated by investment category for available-for-sale investments as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, reflect the inclusion within short-term investments of investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase. Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months. Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets.  
Interest income is accrued as earned. Dividend income is recognized as income on the date the stock trades “ex-dividend.” The cost of marketable securities sold is determined by the specific identification method. Realized gains or losses are reflected in income and were not material for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.  
 Level 2   Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments or securities or derivative contracts that are valued using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.  
In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the Company categorizes such assets and liabilities based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Company’s assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability.  
Available-for-sale investments consisted of time deposits, certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptance drafts, asset-backed securities (which include auto loans, credit card receivables and equipment trust receivables), commercial paper, corporate obligations, U.S. treasury obligations, U.S. agency obligations and group insurance contracts.  
By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. The Company enters into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions, for which no collateral is required. The Company has policies to monitor the credit risk of these counterparties. While there can be no assurance, the Company does not anticipate any material non-performance by any of these counterparties.  
On February 1, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “Merger Agreement”), by and among the Company, EAS Equipment, Inc., formerly a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and ESI (the “ESI Merger”). At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax.  
The aggregate consideration of approximately $1,032,671, excluding related transaction fees and expenses, and non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of approximately $30,630 for a total purchase consideration of approximately $1,063,301. The Company funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of the Company’s available cash on hand and the proceeds from the Company’s senior secured term loan facility described in Note 11.  
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total estimated acquisition consideration is allocated to the acquired tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities of ESI based on their fair values as of the acquisition date. Any excess of the acquisition consideration over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. The Company expects that none of such goodwill and intangible assets will be deductible for tax purposes.  
The fair value write-up of acquired finished goods inventory and demonstration inventory was $8,383, the amount of which will be expensed over the period during which the acquired inventory is sold. Accordingly, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company recorded a $5,140 incremental cost of sales charge associated with the fair value write-up of inventory acquired in the ESI Merger.  
Certain executives from ESI had severance provisions in their respective ESI employment agreements. The agreements included terms that were accounted for as dual-trigger arrangements. Through the Company’s acquisition accounting, the expense relating to these benefits was recognized in the combined entity’s financial statements. The Company recorded costs of $2,701 and $14,023 in acquisition and integration costs as compensation expense and stock-based compensation expense, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 associated with these severance provisions. The restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights that were eligible for accelerated vesting if the executive exercised his or her rights but were not issued as of each reporting period-end, will be excluded from the computation of basic earnings per share and included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for such reporting period.  
The Company subsequently entered into four separate repricing amendments to the 2016 Term Loan Facility, which decreased the applicable margin for LIBOR borrowings from 4.0% to 1.75%, with a LIBOR rate floor of 0.75%. As a consequence of the pricing of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility (defined below), the applicable margin for the 2016 Term Loan Facility was increased to 2.00% (from 1.75%) with respect to LIBOR borrowings and 1.00% (from 0.75%) with respect to base rate borrowings. The interest rate on the 2016 Term Loan Facility as of March 31, 2019 was 4.5%.  
On September 30, 2016, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement, which has a maturity date of September 30, 2020, to fix the rate on $335,000 of the then-outstanding balance of the 2016 Term Loan Facility. The rate is fixed at 1.198% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 2.0% at March 31, 2019. At March 31, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $290,000 and had a fair value of $4,459.  
As of March 31, 2019, after total principal prepayments of $425,000 and regularly scheduled principal payments of $6,536, the total outstanding principal balance of the 2016 Term Loan Facility was $348,464. As a result of making these prepayments, the Company is no longer required to make any regularly scheduled principal payments on the 2016 Term Loan Facility until the maturity date of the loan.  
The Company incurred $28,747 of deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the term loans under the 2016 Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method. A portion of these fees have been accelerated in connection with the various debt prepayments during 2016, 2017 and 2018. As of March 31, 2019, the remaining balance of the deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the 2016 Term Loan Facility was $3,980.  


item2.txt
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for our customers. Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions. We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training. Our primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, research and defense.  
On February 1, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “ESI Merger”). At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax. We paid the former ESI stockholders aggregate consideration of approximately $1.033 billion, excluding related transaction fees and expenses, and non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of approximately $31 million for a total purchase consideration of approximately $1.063 billion. We funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of our available cash on hand and the proceeds from our senior secured term loan facility as described below.  
The semiconductor capital equipment industry has been experiencing a moderation in capital spending in the near term and we have seen a similar effect on our semiconductor revenue in the first quarter and expect that to continue into the second quarter. The semiconductor capital equipment industry is subject to rapid demand shifts, which are difficult to predict, and we cannot be certain as to the timing or extent of future demand or any future weakness in the semiconductor capital equipment industry.  
At the inception of an arrangement, we determine whether the arrangement is or contains a lease based on the facts and circumstances present. Most leases with a term greater than one year are recognized on the balance sheet as right-of-use assets, short-term lease liabilities and long-term lease liabilities. We have elected not to recognize on the balance sheet leases with terms of one year or less. Operating lease liabilities and their corresponding right-of-use assets are recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the expected remaining fixed lease term. Certain adjustments to the right-of-use asset may be required for items such as incentives received. In calculating the present value of future lease payments, we utilize our incremental borrowing rates, which are the rates incurred to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment. We have elected to utilize a single blended interest rate based on currencies, geographies and lease terms that comprise the lease portfolio.  
Although separation of lease and non-lease components is required, certain practical expedients are available. Entities may elect the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components. We have elected to account for the lease and non-lease components of each of our operating leases as a single lease component and allocate all of the contract consideration to the lease component only. The lease component results in an operating right-of-use asset being recorded on the balance sheet and amortized on a straight-line basis as lease expense.  
We have thousands of products, and our research and development efforts primarily consist of a large number of projects related to these products, none of which is individually material to us. Current projects typically have durations of 3 to 30 months depending upon whether the product is an enhancement of existing technology or a new product. Our current initiatives include projects to enhance the performance characteristics of older products, to develop new products and to integrate various technologies into subsystems. These projects support in large part the transition in the semiconductor industry to smaller integrated circuit geometries and in the flat panel display and solar markets to larger substrate sizes, which require more advanced process control technology. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses for personnel engaged in research and development, fees paid to consultants, material costs for prototypes and other expenses related to the design, development, testing and enhancement of our products.  
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year. This decrease was primarily attributed to a decrease of $7.4 million related to the legacy MKS business, which included a decrease of $5.9 million of compensation related expenses and $1.6 million of commissions expense. This decrease was offset by an increase of $7.0 million related to the ESI Merger, which included $4.1 million in compensation related expenses, $0.9 million of depreciation expense, $0.5 million of consulting and professional fees and $0.4 million of commissions expense.  
As of March 31, 2019, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately $40.7 million. At December 31, 2018, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately $32.7 million. The net increase is primarily attributable the addition of historical gross unrecognized tax benefits for ESI as a result of the ESI Merger during the quarter ended March 31, 2019. As of March 31, 2019, excluding interest and penalties, there were approximately $33.1 million of net unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact our annual effective tax rate. We accrue interest and, if applicable, penalties for any uncertain tax positions. Interest and penalties are classified as a component of income tax expense. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had accrued interest on unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively.  
Net cash provided by operating activities was $29.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and resulted from net income of $12.5 million, which included non-cash charges of $61.6 million, offset by a net increase in working capital of $45.0 million. The net increase in working capital was primarily due to a decrease in accrued compensation of $22.9 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $17.3 million, an increase in inventories of $10.3 million and a decrease in income taxes of $3.7 million, partially offset by a decrease in other current and non-current assets of $4.8 million and a decrease in accounts receivable of $4.0 million.  


part2.txt
In March 2016, two putative class actions lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-733154-C, and Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”). The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Newport Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief. On April 14, 2016, the Court consolidated the actions.  


