•our ability to complete the merger with Cavium, Inc. on a timely basis, or at all;
•the outcome of pending or future litigation and legal and regulatory proceedings.
We are a fabless semiconductor provider of high-performance, application-specific standard products. Our core strength is developing complex System-on-a-Chip (“SoC”) devices, leveraging our technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, and embedded and standalone integrated circuits. We also develop integrated hardware platforms along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution. Our broad product portfolio includes devices for storage, networking and connectivity.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, our net revenue increased year over year by 6% from $572.7 million net revenue in the first quarter fiscal 2018 compared with $604.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The increase was primarily due to a 4% increase in our storage product sales and 11% increase in our networking and connectivity product sales. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 10% in relation to the three months ended April 29, 2017. 
Pending Business Combination. On November 19, 2017, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”), pursuant to which one of our subsidiaries will merge with and into Cavium, with Cavium surviving and becoming our wholly-owned indirect subsidiary (the “Merger”). Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. The Merger is primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions.
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, we will issue 2.1757 common shares and pay $40.00 per share in cash, without interest, for each share of Cavium common stock. The merger consideration will be financed by a mix of cash, new debt financing and issuance of our common stock. 
Capital Return Program. Our financial position is strong and we remain committed to delivering shareholder value through our dividend program. We returned $29.8 million to stockholders in the three months ended May 5, 2018 in the form of cash dividend payments. 
Cash and Short Term Investments. Our total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $1.9 billion at May 5, 2018, which was slightly higher than our balance at our fiscal year ended February 3, 2018. 
We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of our major customers and distributors and believe the distributors’ sales to diverse end customers and geographies further serve to mitigate our exposure to credit risk.
Most of our sales are made to customers located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, and all of our products are manufactured outside the United States. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 94% of our net revenue in the three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. Because many manufacturers and manufacturing subcontractors of our customers are located in Asia, we expect that most of our net revenue will continue to be represented by sales to our customers in that region. For risks related to our global operations, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption "We face additional risks due to the extent of our global operations since a majority of our products, and those of our customers, are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. The occurrence of any or a combination of the additional risks described below would significantly and negatively impact our business and results of operations."
 At the beginning of fiscal year 2019, we adopted the new revenue recognition standard using the modified retrospective method. Refer to “Note 3 - Revenue” for further information. 
Our net revenue for the three months ended May 5, 2018 increased by $31.9 million compared to net revenue for the three months ended April 29, 2017. This was primarily due to increased sales of our networking and connectivity products by 11% and higher sales of our storage products by 4% related to higher sales of SSD products. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which were down 10% compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017. 
In the three months ended May 5, 2018, unit shipments were 9% higher and average selling prices decreased 4% compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017. 
Research and development expenses decreased by $11.4 million in the three months ended May 5, 2018 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease of $4.5 million in nonrecurring engineering service fees, a decrease of $2.9 million in technology license amortization expense and $2.3 million in lower personnel costs due to headcount reduction. 
Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $17.2 million in the three months ended May 5, 2018 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $15.3 million in merger-related costs. Refer to “Note 1- Basis of Presentation” for discussion of the pending merger transaction.
We recognized $1.6 million of total restructuring related charges in the three months ended May 5, 2018 as the Company continues to execute previously announced restructuring actions. 
Interest and other income, net, increased by $4.0 million in the three months ended May 5, 2018 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017. The increase is primarily due to a $2.6 million increase in interest income and a $1.5 million increase associated with foreign currency gain related to the revaluation of foreign currency denominated tax liabilities.
Our income tax provision for the three months ended May 5, 2018 was $3.8 million compared to an income tax provision of $5.2 million for the three months ended April 29, 2017. Our income tax provision for the three months ended May 5, 2018 differs from the same period in the prior year due to a reduction of tax expense on income from continuing operations, including discrete items in the quarter, versus the recognition of a discrete item related to changes in prior tax positions, and an additional accrual related to restructurings in the prior period. The effective tax rate for the three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017 differs from the statutory federal rate of 21% primarily due to foreign earnings that are taxed at a substantially lower tax rate. 
Our principal source of liquidity as of May 5, 2018 consisted of approximately $1.9 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $1.0 billion was held by foreign subsidiaries (outside Bermuda). Approximately $550 million of this amount held by foreign subsidiaries is related to subsidiaries whose earnings are undistributed and have been indefinitely reinvested outside of Bermuda. These funds are primarily held in China, Israel and the United States. We have plans to use such amounts to fund various activities outside of Bermuda, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures for expansion, funding of future acquisitions or other financing activities. The amount of undistributed earnings of these subsidiaries for which no deferred tax liability has been provided is $430 million. If such funds were needed by the parent company in Bermuda or if the amounts were otherwise no longer considered indefinitely reinvested, we would incur a tax expense of approximately $160 million. 
To the extent that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and cash generated by operations are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing. We may also acquire additional businesses, purchase assets or enter into other strategic arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek debt or equity financing. Additional equity financing or convertible debt financing may be dilutive to our current shareholders. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common shares.
Net cash flow used in operations for the three months ended April 29, 2017 was $134.2 million. We had $106.6 million of net income, adjusted for $38.2 million of non-cash items, which was primarily driven by depreciation and amortization of $20.7 million, share-based compensation expense of $24.0 million, the amortization and write-off of acquired intangible assets of $1.1 million, and gain on the sale of discontinued operations of $8.2 million. The cash outflow from working capital of $10.6 million for the three months ended April 29, 2017 was primarily driven by increases in accounts receivable and inventory, as well as a decrease in accrued liabilities when adjusted for the impacts of investing activities, offset by an increase in accounts payable. The increase in accounts receivable was driven by less favorable sales linearity and a small increase in aged receivables. Inventories primarily associated with HDD inventory increased in preparation for the next quarter's demand. The decrease in accrued liabilities when adjusted for the impact of unsettled investment purchases was driven by a reduction of accruals for restructuring expenses and rebates. 
For the three months ended April 29, 2017, net cash used in investing activities of $17.3 million was primarily driven by purchase of available-for-sale securities of $198.4 million, offset by sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities of $161.0 million and net proceeds of $23.0 million from the sale of our Broadband business. 
For the three months ended April 29, 2017, net cash used in financing activities of $205.0 million was primarily attributable to $166.3 million for the repurchases of our common stock, $30.0 million for payment of our quarterly dividends, and $21.8 million minimum tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for net share settlements.
We presented our contractual obligations at February 3, 2018 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the three months ended May 5, 2018.
See “Note 8 – Commitments and Contingencies” in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
During the three months ended May 5, 2018, we suspended our share repurchase program in anticipation of the funding of our acquisition of Cavium. Therefore, there were no share repurchases during the three months ended May 5, 2018. Although share repurchases are temporarily suspended, we have $358.0 million of repurchase authority remaining under our current share repurchase program. 
