Includes charges related to operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our Studios and Distribution businesses.
The Notes are general senior obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in right of payment to all of the Company’s existing and future senior indebtedness, including the Revolver described above.
As part of this termination, Activision agreed to transfer its publishing rights for the Destiny franchise to Bungie in exchange for cash and Bungie’s assumption of on-going customer obligations of Activision.
We elected to apply an optional adoption method, which uses the effective date as the initial date of application on transition with no retrospective adjustments to prior periods.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
We expect to incur aggregate pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $150 million in 2019 associated with the restructuring plan.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no impairment charges related to assets that are measured on a non-recurring basis.
On February 8, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.34 per common share.•lower revenues from Hearthstone.
The decrease in product costs for the six months ended June 30, 2019, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2018, was in line with the decrease in product sales.
The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with investing activities typically include capital expenditures, purchases and sales of investments, changes in restricted cash balances, and cash used for acquisitions.
fees retained by Apple and Google for our sales on their platforms), payment processor fees, and server bandwidth fees.
•lower service provider fees, such as digital storefront fees (e.g.
The decrease was partially offset by lower operating costs associated with the Destiny franchise.
The decrease in net revenues from the Americas region for the three months ended June 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, the publishing rights to which we sold to Bungie in December 2018, as previously disclosed.
Q2 2019 vs. Q2 2018
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A, and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.We do not hold or purchase any foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes.