fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains, or incorporates by reference, certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease, and to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset for its leases.
Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise.
The STA decision described the basis for issuing a transfer pricing assessment of approximately 3.5kr billion (approximately $400 million), primarily concerning an alleged intercompany asset transfer.
Fees and discounts associated with the issuance of our debt instruments are recorded as debt discount, which reduces their respective carrying values, and are amortized over their respective terms.
At December 31, 2018, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2026 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and the 2047 Notes were $800 million, $376 million, and $360 million, respectively.
We were in compliance with the terms of the Notes as of March 31, 2019.
Lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of future lease payments over the lease term at the commencement date.
Further, we may be required to pay the full assessment to the STA in advance of the final resolution of the matter.
Activision no longer has any material rights or obligations related to the Destiny franchise.
We expect to incur aggregate pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $150 million in 2019 associated with the restructuring plan.
As part of this termination, Activision agreed to transfer its publishing rights for the Destiny franchise to Bungie in exchange for cash and Bungie’s assumption of on-going customer obligations of Activision.
Further, we may be required to pay the full assessment to the STA in advance of the final resolution of the matter.
Additionally, we elected to apply the package of transition practical expedients which permitted us to, among other things, (1) not reassess if existing contracts contained leases under the new lease accounting standard and (2) carry forward our historical lease classifications.
Therefore, approximately 6 million and 2 million options to purchase shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, as the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.


item2.txt
Additionally, to diversify our portfolio of key franchises and increase our presence on the mobile platform, in 2016, we acquired King.
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.
King is a leading developer of mobile and free-to-play games and our other business units have mobile efforts underway that present the opportunity for us to expand the reach of, and drive additional player investment from, our franchises.
The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A, and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
Additionally, as recently announced, we have sold the first five teams for our professional Call of Duty city-based league.
Additionally, we had lower capital expenditures of $18 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $31 million in the prior-year period.
For example, as part of our efforts to take advantage of esports opportunities, during 2017, we completed the sale of 12 teams for the Overwatch League, which concluded its inaugural season in July 2018.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A, and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
Games have become an increasingly popular form of entertainment, and we estimate the total industry has grown, on average, 18% annually from 2015 to 2018.
For example, in 2014, we released Hearthstone, and in 2016, we released Overwatch.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio, as our outstanding debt is all at fixed rates.
We monitor currency volatility throughout the year.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Confidential materials omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


