Our MLG business, which was previously included in the non-reportable “Other segments,” is now presented within the “Blizzard” reportable operating segment.
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
We adopted the new standard during the first quarter of 2018 and applied the standard retrospectively for all periods presented.
Adoption of the new revenue accounting standard had no impact to net cash from or used in operating, investing, or financing activities in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
In January 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
Activision develops, markets, and sells products based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments (the “new revenue accounting standard”).
GAAP”) for interim reporting.
Refer to Note 9 - Deferred revenue for further information, including changes in deferred revenue during the period.
We adopted the new standard during the first quarter of 2018 and applied the standard retrospectively for all periods presented.On February 1, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized repayments of up to $1.8 billion of the company’s outstanding debt during 2018.
We do not plan to early adopt this new standard but do expect to elect and apply the available transition practical expedients upon adoption.
Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting.
The top 10 console franchises in 2017 were all established franchises.
Additionally, to diversify our portfolio of key franchises and increase our presence in the mobile market, on February 23, 2016, we completed the acquisition of King.
The change was primarily attributed to our debt financing activities in the prior year.
These opportunities include esports, film and television, and consumer products.
Further, the wide adoption of smart phones globally and the free-to-play business model on those platforms has increased the total addressable market for gaming significantly by introducing gaming to new age groups and new regions and allowing gaming to occur more widely outside the home.We monitor currency volatility throughout the year.