fls.txt
The forward-looking statements contained herein are based on information available to Activision Blizzard, Inc. as of the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
On January 31, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of our common stock from February 14, 2019, until the earlier of February 13, 2021, and a determination by the Board of Directors to discontinue the repurchase program.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, $0.1 billion and $1.6 billion of revenues, respectively, were recognized that were included in the deferred revenues balance at January 1, 2018, as adjusted for the adoption of the new revenue standard in the prior year.
With the exception of the 2047 Notes, using Level 2 inputs (i.e., observable market prices in less-than-active markets) at September 30, 2019, the carrying values of the Notes approximated their fair values, as the interest rates were similar to the current rates at which we could borrow funds over the selected interest periods.
For leased assets with similar lease terms and asset type we applied a portfolio approach in determining a single incremental borrowing rate to apply to the leased assets.
Variable lease payments are recognized as lease expenses as incurred, and generally relate to variable payments made based on the level of services provided by the landlords of our leases.
The update replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss model which requires the use of historical and forward-looking information to calculate credit loss estimates.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Fees and discounts associated with the issuance of our debt instruments are recorded as debt discount, which reduces their respective carrying values, and are amortized over their respective terms.
As a result, we have updated our significant accounting policy disclosure to include our accounting policy for leases under the new standard.
The update replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss model which requires the use of historical and forward-looking information to calculate credit loss estimates.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A., and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard.
This balance does not include an estimate for variable consideration arising from sales-based royalty license revenue in excess of the contractual minimum guarantee.


item2.txt
For example, the Call of Duty, Candy Crush, and World of Warcraft franchises, collectively, accounted for 58% of our consolidated net revenues—and a significantly higher percentage of our operating income—for 2018.
YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018
Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise.
King’s net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, were roughly equal to net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to the same driver and offsetting factor discussed above.
YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018
•lower revenues from Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy.
The slight increase in Blizzard’s average MAUs is due to an increase in average MAUs for World of Warcraft, largely offset by lower average MAUs for Hearthstone.
The decrease in net revenues from the Americas region for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018).
Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018
•lower revenues from Overwatch.
Our primary sources of liquidity, which are available to us to fund cash outflows such as potential dividend payments or share repurchases, and scheduled debt maturities, include our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows provided by operating activities.
•lower revenues from Overwatch.
Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018


item3.txt
This sensitivity analysis assumes a parallel adverse shift of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar; however, all foreign currency exchange rates do not always move in this manner and actual results may differ materially.
Conversely, the fair value of such a portfolio is less sensitive to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities.


item4.txt



part2.txt



