fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.
As of and during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
As of June 30, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.4 million, $3.6 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the location of the customer purchasing the product.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.
For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied.
Adjustments to revenue for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods were not significant during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018.
As of June 30, 2019, total deferred revenue was $107.4 million, and of this amount, $94.2 million is expected to be recognized within the next twelve months, and the remaining $13.2 million is long-term and is expected to be recognized over a period greater than twelve months.
(Opterna) on April 15, 2019 for a preliminary purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $61.5 million.
Of the $61.5 million purchase price, $45.5 million was paid on April 15, 2019 and was funded with cash on hand.
The acquisition included a potential earnout, which is based upon future Opterna financial targets through April 15, 2021.
The maximum earnout consideration is $25.0 million, but based upon a third party valuation specialist using certain assumptions in a discounted cash flow model, the estimated fair value of the earnout included in the purchase price was $16.0 million.
Opterna is an international fiber optics solutions business based in Sterling, Virginia, which designs and manufactures a range of complementary fiber connectivity, cabinet, and enclosure products used in optical networks.
Certain subsidiaries of Opterna include noncontrolling interests.
The above purchase price allocation is preliminary, and is subject to revision as additional information about the fair value of individual assets and liabilities becomes available.
A change in the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired or noncontrolling interests will change the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill.


item2.txt
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S. As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.
Generally, as the costs of inventory purchases increase due to higher commodity prices, we raise selling prices to customers to cover the increase in costs, resulting in higher sales revenue but a lower gross profit percentage.
We recognized $3.0 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
We recognized $2.5 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019.
We expect to incur approximately $3 million of additional severance and restructuring costs for this program, most of which will be incurred by the end of 2019.
The decrease in volume was primarily experienced in our Enterprise solutions segment, partially offset by an increase in volume in our Industrial solutions segment.
Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2019 decreased due to the decreases in revenue discussed above and was further impacted from unfavorable mix which was partially offset by decreases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs of $6.8 million from the comparable period of 2018.
Gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased due to the decreases in revenue discussed above and was further impacted from unfavorable mix which was partially offset by decreases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs of $15.7 million from the comparable period of 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $16.4 million and $18.4 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 from the comparable periods of 2018 primarily due to a decrease in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs of $12.2 million and $18.8 million, respectively.


item3.txt



part2.txt



