The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was March 31, 2019, the 90th day of our fiscal year 2019.
The three months ended April 1, 2018 included 91 days.
•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.
As of and during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
As of March 31, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.3 million, $3.6 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions.
Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the location of the customer purchasing the product.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.During the three months ended March 31, 2019, approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S. As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.
Generally, as the costs of inventory purchases increase due to higher commodity prices, we raise selling prices to customers to cover the increase in costs, resulting in higher sales revenue but a lower gross profit percentage.
We recognized $3.0 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
•Copper prices had a $5.1 million unfavorable impact on revenues.
•Favorable pricing resulted in a $10.6 million increase in revenues.
•Acquisitions contributed an estimated $10.7 million increase in revenues.