fls.txt



item1.txt
During the financial closing process for the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined that certain consolidated financial statement amounts were not recorded correctly in prior interim periods of 2017.
The errors primarily related to recognizing revenue prior to satisfying all of the delivery criteria in one business within our Enterprise segment.
The impact of the errors in the three months ended July 2, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $10.4 million and $1.3 million, respectively.
The impact of the errors in the six months ended July 2, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $16.5 million and $4.3 million, respectively.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
As of July 1, 2018, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.2 million, $2.4 million, and $2.3 million, respectively.
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance, without written opinion, of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded about $61.8 million, plus accrued interest.
We received a pre-tax amount of approximately $62.1 million from Corning on July 19, 2018.
We did not record any amounts in our consolidated financial statements related to this matter in the second quarter but will record the cash received as a gain in our third quarter financial statements.
For such arrangements, we allocate revenues to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
Generally, the standalone selling prices are determined based upon the prices charged to customers.
The transaction price for certain contracts are subject to variable consideration for estimated rebates, price allowances, invoicing adjustments, and product returns.
We use the most likely amount method for estimating rebates and the expected value method for estimating price allowances, invoicing adjustments, and product returns.
We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of our performance.
Sales commissions for which the related service or support contract extends beyond one year are capitalized in other current or long-lived assets and recognized as expense over the related service or support period.
In the event the related service or support period is twelve months or less, we apply the practical expedient and expense the sales commissions when incurred.
These costs are recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses.


item2.txt
For both the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, approximately 49% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S. Therefore, all references to the effect of copper prices or other commodity prices are estimates.
In March 2018, we issued €350.0 million ($431.3 million at issuance) aggregate principal amount of new senior subordinated notes due 2028 at an interest rate of 3.875%.
During March and April 2018, we used the net proceeds of this offering to repurchase our outstanding $200.0 million 5.25% senior subordinated notes due 2024 and our outstanding €200.0 million 5.5% senior subordinated notes due 2023.
We paid approximately $7.5 million of fees related to issuing the 2028 notes, and recognized a $3.0 million and $23.0 million loss on debt extinguishment during the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively, for premiums paid to the bond holders to retire the 2024 and 2023 notes and for the unamortized debt issuance costs that we wrote-off.
We recognized $20.3 million and $29.5 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Following is a discussion of some of the more significant risks that could materially impact our business, including certain updates since previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on February 13, 2018.
There may be additional risks that impact our business that we currently do not recognize as, or that are not currently, material to our business.
A challenging global economy could also make it difficult for our customers, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities.
For example, a strengthened U.S. dollar can result in relative price increases for our products for customers outside of the U.S., which can have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations.
Furthermore, customers’ ability to invest in capital expenditures, such as our products, can depend upon proceeds from commodities, such as oil and gas markets.
A decline in energy prices, therefore, can have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations.
Moreover, some competitors that are highly leveraged both financially and operationally could become more aggressive in their pricing of products.


