fls.txt
The estimate of expected credit losses will require considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts.
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report and with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
CDW Finance Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed for the sole purpose of acting as co-issuer of certain debt obligations as described in Note 13 (Supplemental Guarantor Information) and does not hold any material assets or engage in any business activities or operations.
The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of March 31, 2019 and for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial statements.
The significant accounting policies used in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements were applied on a basis consistent with those reflected in the December 31, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.
Restricted cash represents funds that are restricted to satisfy designated current liabilities.


item2.txt
See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.
There continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the impact of the UK's planned withdrawal from the European Union ("EU") (referred to as "Brexit").
We have established a presence on the continent to support CDW UK's broader growth opportunities in the EU.
This also serves as a contingency plan to address future developments as needed around Brexit.
•Technology trends drive customer purchasing behaviors in the market.
We made this change due to the continuing evolution of the IT consumption model.
Non-GAAP operating income is also being used for the first time in 2019 as a key business metric for our annual incentive compensation programs.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
Total Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $352 million, or 9.7%, to $3,958 million, compared to $3,606 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, constant currency Net sales growth was 10.6%.
Additionally, strong results from our international operations, including two months of Net sales from Scalar Decisions Inc. ("Scalar"), which was acquired on February 1, 2019, contributed to our Net sales growth.
Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $170 million, or 10.9%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.
On an average daily sales basis, Corporate segment Net sales increased 12.6%.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased by $28 million, or 8.5%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


