Refer to Note 2 for additional details regarding the acquisition of Jack Black, L.L.C.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
For more information on the acquisition, see Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
In July 2015, the FASB issued a new ASU which aligns the measurement of inventory under GAAP more closely with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Under the new guidance, an entity that measures inventory using FIFO or average cost should measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation.The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.
Risk Factors and "Forward-Looking Statements" included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the impact of acquisitions includes net sales and segment profit activity for Jack Black, which was acquired in March 2018.
For the six months ended March 31, 2018, the impact of acquisitions also includes October 2017 net sales and segment profit for Bulldog Skincare Holdings Limited (“Bulldog”), which was acquired in October 2016.
Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry.
•Our business is subject to increasing global regulation, including product related regulations and environmental regulations, that may expose us to significant liabilities.Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.