fls.txt
Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within "Forward-Looking Statements" below, and in Item 1A.


item1.txt
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU"), which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
In July 2015, the FASB issued a new ASU, which aligns the measurement of inventory under GAAP more closely with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Under the new guidance, an entity that measures inventory using FIFO or average cost should measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation.
The standard requires cash flows from excess tax benefits and deficiencies, previously classified as a financing activity, to be classified as an operating activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Also, as part of the adoption, a $9.7 adjustment was recorded to increase retained earnings and deferred tax assets to recognize the cumulative amount of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits as of October 1, 2017.
As such, $7.1 of cash outflows for tax withholding payments were reclassified from an operating activity to a financing activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the first quarter of fiscal 2017.
This election did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU, which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries and across capital markets.
During fiscal 2017, the Company established a cross-functional implementation team, including representatives from all of its businesses globally, to analyze the current processes in place for the recognition of revenue and identify potential differences that would result from application of the new guidance.


item2.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.
Risk Factors and "Forward-Looking Statements" included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions and dispositions (including the disposition of the gloves business and acquisition of Bulldog).
Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry.
•A failure of a key information technology system or a breach of our information security could adversely impact our ability to conduct business.
•Our business is subject to increasing global regulation, including product related regulations and environmental regulations, that may expose us to significant liabilities.
•Our access to capital markets and borrowing capacity could be limited.
•We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.
•We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel.
The list of factors above is illustrative, but not exhaustive.
The personal care product categories are highly competitive, both in the U.S. and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space.


item3.txt
At times, we enter into contractual arrangements (derivatives) to reduce these exposures.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.
The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty.


