fls.txt
Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within "Forward-Looking Statements" below, and in Item 1A.


item1.txt
Refer to Note 2 for additional details regarding the acquisition of Jack Black, L.L.C.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
For more information on the acquisition, see Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
In July 2015, the FASB issued a new ASU which aligns the measurement of inventory under GAAP more closely with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Under the new guidance, an entity that measures inventory using FIFO or average cost should measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation.
The standard requires cash flows from excess tax benefits and deficiencies, previously classified as a financing activity, to be classified as an operating activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Also, as part of the adoption, a $9.7 adjustment was recorded to increase retained earnings and deferred tax assets to recognize the cumulative amount of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits as of October 1, 2017.
As such, $15.6 of cash outflows for tax withholding payments were reclassified from an operating activity to a financing activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
This election did not have a material impact on the Company's financial statements.
Under existing guidance, an entity performs procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing date of its assets and liabilities following the same procedures required when determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination.


item2.txt
Risk Factors and "Forward-Looking Statements" included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the impact of acquisitions includes net sales and segment profit activity for Jack Black, which was acquired in March 2018.
For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the impact of acquisitions also includes October 2017 net sales and segment profit for Bulldog Skincare Holdings Limited (“Bulldog”), which was acquired in October 2016.
Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry.
•Our business is subject to increasing global regulation, including product related regulations and environmental regulations, that may expose us to significant liabilities.
•Our access to capital markets and borrowing capacity could be limited.
•We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.
•We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel.
The list of factors above is illustrative, but not exhaustive.
The personal care product categories are highly competitive, both in the U.S. and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
There have been no material changes to the disclosure regarding the legal proceedings set forth in Part I, Item 3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
The risk factors included below are revised from versions included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.


