fls.txt
Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within “Forward-Looking Statements” below and in Item 1A.


item1.txt
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries, and across capital markets.
Those sales predominantly contain a single delivery element and revenue is recognized at a single point in time when ownership, risks, and rewards transfer.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $1.3 liability for advanced payments from customers in Other current liabilities with a corresponding increase to Trade receivables to reclassify advanced payments from customers from contra-Trade receivables as of October 1, 2018.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and distributions received from equity method investees, among others.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an ASU clarifying the definition of a business, reducing the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated, and providing a framework to assist entities in evaluating whether both an input and a substantive process are present.
The guidance also requires that an integrated set of assets and activities must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output to be considered a business and removes the evaluation of whether a market participant could replace the missing elements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an ASU that clarifies the scope of accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards.
The amendments provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases.
Additionally, this update requires qualitative disclosure along with specific quantitative disclosures.
Lessees and lessors will be required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach.
No adjustment to retained earnings was required on October 1, 2018.
Results for periods ending after October 1, 2018 are recognized and presented in accordance with the new standard, while prior period amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the prior accounting guidance.


item2.txt
While we report financial results in accordance with GAAP, this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as “adjusted” or “organic” and exclude items such as restructuring charges, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, the Jack Black, L.L.C.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act.
You should not place undue reliance on these statements.
Risk Factors of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
In February 2018, we announced Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure and key processes that will enable us to achieve our desired future state operations.
The project will incorporate our Zero-Based Spending (“ZBS”) and global productivity initiatives and will include a new global restructuring initiative.
While the Company incurred costs and realized savings for Project Fuel in fiscal 2018, most costs will be incurred and savings will be achieved during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.
On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men’s skincare products company, for approximately $90.2, net of cash acquired.
The gain on sale of Playtex gloves recognized for fiscal year 2018 was $15.3.


item3.txt
At times, we enter into contractual arrangements (derivatives) to reduce these exposures.


item4.txt



part2.txt
On February 6, 2019, Edgewell Personal Care (the "Company") borrowed $185 under the Revolving Facility to fund the repayment and retirement of our $185 Term Loan due April 2019.


