Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

On January 3, 2019, as partial consideration for the acquisition of VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location, we issued 1,802,379 shares of common stock the Company at a fair value of $198 million, inclusive of $38 million related to compensation withheld from the purchase that will be expensed over an average service period of one year, to certain of the former owners of VaaS.
These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation.
On July 11, 2019 the Company issued 80,702 shares of restricted stock in connection with the acquisition of WatchGuard, Inc., a company that is a U.S. leader in mobile video solutions.
The restricted stock was issued for an aggregate grant-date fair value of $14 million that will be expensed over an average service period of two years.
These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation.
As disclosed on a Form 8-K previously filed, on September 5, 2019, the Company entered into an investment agreement, pursuant to which it issued $1.0 billion in the New Senior Convertible Notes in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The sale was completed in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act.
The Company relied on such exemption from registration based in part on representations made by the investment agreement with Silver Lake Partners.
On September 5, 2019, in connection with the agreement with Silver Lake Partners to settle a portion of the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes, the Company issued 5,471,271 million shares of common stock.
These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering of solicitation.
Subsequently, the shares were registered for resale by the selling securityholders pursuant to a registration statement filed on September 6, 2019.
The selling securityholders will receive all of the proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the shares of common stock.
The Company will not receive any of the proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the shares of common stock.
The following table provides information with respect to acquisitions by the Company of shares of its common stock during the quarter ended September 28, 2019.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
None.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
Item 6.
Exhibits




 MOTOROLA, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC and are used under license.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
©2019 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
