The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $5.9 million and $4.5 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $9.0 million and $8.8 million, respectively.
For the three months ended and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance were $0.9 million and $23.4 million, respectively.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 day to 11 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 14 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year.
Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount.
We recognize payments related to short-term leases (less than one year) as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term and variable lease payments in the period in which the obligation for those payments were incurred.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, we incurred variable lease costs of $0.5 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
H2M Group (H2M)—On August 8, 2019, we completed the acquisition of H2M through a membership interest purchase agreement by and among H2M Group, HHM Holding LLC, and the Members and ManTech International Corporation.As such, our business is impacted by the overall U.S. government budget and our ability to match our capabilities and offerings to the U.S. government's spending priorities.
In August 2019, Congress passed and the president signed a new two-year budget deal, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019.
The Act effectively ended the threat of sequestration by increasing spending for GFY 2020 and 2021 above caps previously in place under the Budget Control Act.
This change has caused a net increase in the reported cost of services and a net decrease in reported general and administrative expenses in 2019 as compared to 2018; however, total operating costs were not affected by this change.
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisitions, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work or lower material purchases on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 39% for the same period in 2018.