fls.txt
These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.


item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $3.5 million and $4.3 million, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $5.6 million and $5.8 million, respectively.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $4.5 million.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $22.5 million.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASC 842, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring the recognition of right of use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet.
Most prominent among the changes in ASC 842 is the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases.
Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We are also required to recognize and measure leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented using a modified retrospective approach, with certain practical expedients available.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
The depreciation of the ROU asset increases each year as a result of the declining lease liability balance.
Variable lease payments are not recognized in the measurement of the lease liability - they are recognized in the period in which the related obligation has been incurred.
In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 0.2 years to 11 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 14 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year.
Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount.
We sublease some of our real estate lease space, resulting in sublease income of $6 thousand and $29 thousand as of the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.


item2.txt
This change has caused a net increase in the reported cost of services and a net decrease in reported general and administrative expenses in 2019 as compared to 2018; however, total operating costs were not affected by this change.
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisition, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions.
The primary driver of the decrease in our effective tax rate was due to an increased benefit from our deferred compensation plan and stock option exercises as well as increased tax expense for 2018 related to a discrete item recognized in the second quarter of 2018.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisition, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018.
We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase during the remainder of 2019 due to increased bid and proposal spending in the second half of 2019.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Our exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest rates for borrowing under our revolving credit facility.


item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt



