item1.txt
Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, the Company acquired all of the equity interests of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
The operating results of IOTA have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible and other acquired assets and liabilities.
These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible and other acquired assets and liabilities.
The standard requires that all excess tax benefits and deficiencies previously recorded as additional paid-in capital be prospectively recorded in income tax expense, which could create volatility in the Company's effective income tax rate on a quarter by quarter basis due primarily to fluctuations in the Company's stock price and the timing of stock option exercises and vesting of restricted share grants.
The standard also requires excess tax benefits to be presented as an operating activity on the statement of cash flows rather than as a financing activity and taxes paid for employee withholdings to be presented as a financing activity.
Excess tax benefits and deficiencies are recorded within Income tax expense within the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income on a prospective basis as required by the standard; however, the Company elected to present changes to the statement of cash flows on a retrospective basis as allowed by the standard in order to maintain comparability between fiscal years.
The Company adopted ASU 2018-02 effective as of the beginning of the current reporting period and recorded a reclassification for the stranded tax effects resulting from the TCJA from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to Retained earnings in the amount of $11.1 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheets during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2017-01 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows including debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance.
The Company intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019, and the provisions of ASU 2016-15 are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statement disclosures.
The Company has an implementation team tasked with identifying potential differences that will result from applying the new revenue recognition standard to the Company's contracts with its customers.


item2.txt
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, the Company acquired IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements.
The Company currently expects to invest approximately 1.5% of net sales in capital expenditures during fiscal 2018.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, $32.2 million had been invested, primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities.
Management believes that the Company will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on its cash on hand, current projections of cash flow from operations, and borrowing availability under recently executed financing arrangements.
Additionally, management believes that the Company’s cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, future borrowings and capacity, will sufficiently support the long-term liquidity needs of the Company.
During June 2018, the Company entered into a new revolving credit facility and term loan facility.
The Company’s cash position at May 31, 2018 was $94.3 million, a decrease of $216.8 million from August 31, 2017.
During the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company generated net cash flows from operations of $300.7 million.
Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 primarily to repurchase two million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock for $298.4 million, to fund acquisitions of $163.5 million, to fund capital expenditures of $32.2 million, to pay dividends to stockholders of $16.2 million, and to pay employee taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $7.2 million.
The Company invested $32.2 million and $55.2 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively, primarily related to investments in new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1a.Risk Factors
Item 5.Other Information
On June 29, 2018, the Company entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks, consisting of JP Morgan as the administrative agent and other lenders as parties thereto, that provides the Company with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“New Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (“Term Loan Facility”).
Available borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, working capital, refinancing indebtedness under the prior Revolving Credit Facility, share repurchases, and non-hostile acquisitions.


