fls.txt



item1.txt
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
We prepared the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) to present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position as of November 30, 2018, our consolidated comprehensive income for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, and our consolidated cash flows for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017.
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Identified intangible assets consist of indefinite-lived marketing-related intangibles as well as definite-lived customer-based and technology-based assets, which have a weighted average useful life of approximately 14 years.
These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, primarily due to our continuing efforts to gather information related to the identification and valuation of certain deferred tax items.
2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets obtained in an acquisition is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
These cash flows include debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASU 2014-09”), which replaced the existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP.
We adopted ASC 606 effective September 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and recognized a cumulative effect of applying ASC 606 of $13.0 million in Retained earnings on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of this date.
Information for prior years presented has not been restated and continues to reflect the authoritative accounting standards in effect for those periods.
2018-15, Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract (“ASU 2018-02”), which will require customers to apply internal-use software guidance to determine the implementation costs that are able to be capitalized.
2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (“ASU 2016-13”), which requires an entity to assess impairment of its financial instruments based on its estimate of expected credit losses.
The standard allows entities to present the effects of the accounting change as either a cumulative adjustment as of the beginning of the earliest period presented or as of the date of adoption.
We have an implementation team tasked with reviewing our lease obligations and determining the impact of the new standard to our financial statements.


item2.txt
Also, please refer to the Acuity Brands' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 25, 2018 (“Form 10-K”).
Our principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from our business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements.
We currently expect to invest approximately 1.5% of net sales in capital expenditures during fiscal 2019.
For the first three months of fiscal 2019, $14.0 million was invested, primarily for new and enhanced information technology capabilities, equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements.
In March 2018, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) authorized the repurchase of up to six million shares of the Company's common stock.
authorization, of which 0.2 million shares were repurchased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Our short-term cash needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to our employee benefit plans, funding possible acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing up to five million shares of our outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board.
We believe that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on our cash on hand, current projections of cash flow from operations, and borrowing availability under financing arrangements.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 2.
Item 5.Other Information
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc.


