item1.txt
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
The operating results of IOTA have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
The operating results of Lucid have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Amounts related to the acquisition accounting for these acquisitions are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Identified intangible assets consist of indefinite-lived marketing-related intangibles as well as definite-lived customer-based and technology-based assets, which have a weighted average useful life of approximately 14 years.
There were no material changes to our financial statements as a result of the finalization of the acquisition accounting for Lucid or IOTA.
The remaining provisions of ASU 2016-15 did not impact our financial statements for the periods presented.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASU 2014-09”), which replaced the existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP.
These standards have been collectively codified within Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”).
ASC 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The standard also requires additional disclosures about the nature, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in those judgments.
We adopted ASC 606 effective September 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and recognized a cumulative effect of applying ASC 606 of $13.0 million in Retained earnings on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of this date.


item2.txt
Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we paid $39.8 million for property, plant, and equipment, primarily for new and enhanced information technology capabilities, equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements.
Our short-term cash needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned; making capital investments as currently anticipated; paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated; paying principal and interest on debt as currently scheduled, including our senior unsecured notes maturing in December 2019, which we expect to repay with borrowings available under existing credit arrangements; making required contributions to our employee benefit plans; funding possible acquisitions; and potentially repurchasing shares of our outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board.
We believe that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on our cash on hand, current projections of cash flow from operations, and borrowing availability under financing arrangements.
We use available cash and cash flow from operations, borrowings on credit arrangements, and proceeds from the exercise of stock options to fund operations, capital expenditures, and acquisitions if any; to repurchase Company stock; and to pay dividends.
During the nine months ended May 31, 2019, we generated net cash flows from operations of $312.0 million.
Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 primarily to repurchase 0.4 million shares of our outstanding common stock for $48.7 million, fund capital expenditures of $39.8 million, pay dividends to stockholders of $15.6 million, and pay withholding taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $4.9 million.
We generated $312.0 million of cash flow from operating activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 compared with $299.7 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $12.3 million, due primarily to lower operating working capital requirements.
Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable, net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) decreased approximately $21.1 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to a $3.0 million decrease during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 due primarily to greater cash collections from customers year over year as well as fewer inventory purchases, partially offset by the timing of payments for trade payables.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1a.Risk Factors
Item 5.Other Information
Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc.
(formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.


