item1.txt
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
The operating results of IOTA have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
The operating results of Lucid have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Amounts related to the acquisition accounting for these acquisitions are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions reflects total goodwill and identified intangible assets of approximately $77.0 million and $81.8 million, respectively, as of February 28, 2019.
Identified intangible assets consist of indefinite-lived marketing-related intangibles as well as definite-lived customer-based and technology-based assets, which have a weighted average useful life of approximately 14 years.
There were no material changes to our financial statements as a result of the finalization of this acquisition accounting.
In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets obtained in an acquisition is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets.
The provisions of ASU 2017-01 did not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
These cash flows include debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASU 2014-09”), which replaced the existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP.


item2.txt
Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements.
For the first six months of fiscal 2019, we paid $24.9 million for property, plant, and equipment, primarily for new and enhanced information technology capabilities, equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements.
In March 2018, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) authorized the repurchase of up to six million shares of the Company's common stock.
As of February 28, 2019, 1.2 million shares had been repurchased under this authorization, 
Our short-term cash needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned; making capital investments as currently anticipated; paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated; paying principal and interest on debt as currently scheduled, including our senior unsecured notes maturing in December 2019, which we expect to repay with borrowings available under existing credit arrangements; making required contributions to our employee benefit plans; funding possible acquisitions; and potentially repurchasing shares of our outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board.
We believe that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on our cash on hand, current projections of cash flow from operations, and borrowing availability under financing arrangements.
Our cash position at February 28, 2019 was $232.0 million, an increase of $102.9 million from August 31, 2018.
During the six months ended February 28, 2019, we generated net cash flows from operations of $188.3 million.
Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the six months ended February 28, 2019 primarily to repurchase 0.4 million shares of our outstanding common stock for $48.7 million, fund capital expenditures of $24.9 million, pay dividends to stockholders of $10.5 million, and pay withholding taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $4.3 million.
We generated $188.3 million of cash flow from operating activities during the six months ended February 28, 2019 compared with $177.6 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $10.7 million, due primarily to lower operating working capital requirements.
Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable-net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) decreased approximately $35.7 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to a $26.0 million decrease during the first six months of fiscal 2018 due primarily to greater cash collections from customers year over year, partially offset by increased payments for trade payables.
We paid $24.9 million and $20.9 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively, primarily related to investments in new information technology, equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1a.Risk Factors
Item 5.Other Information
Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
(formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.


