We manage our exposure to these market risks through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.
We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives.
Those contracts that result in a liability position at December 30, 2018 are $1.5 million (pre-tax).
The impact on the Company due to nonperformance by the counterparties has been evaluated and not deemed material.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense, on an annualized basis, by approximately $8.0 million on the variable rate portions of our debt.
For the remaining quarter of this fiscal year, we believe approximately 100% of the cost of our lead requirements is known.
This takes into account the hedge contracts in place at December 30, 2018, lead purchased by December 30, 2018 that will be reflected in future costs under our FIFO accounting policy, and the benefit from our lead tolling program.
We estimate that a 10% increase in our cost of lead would have increased our cost of goods sold by approximately $18 million and $54 million, in the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019.
Additionally, as we report our financial statements in U.S. dollars, our financial results are affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we have operations relative to the strength of the U.S. dollar.
The principal foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the Euro, Swiss franc, British pound, Polish zloty, Chinese renminbi and Mexican peso.
Our largest foreign currency exposure is from the purchase and conversion of U.S. dollar based lead costs into local currencies in Europe.
Additionally, we have currency exposures from intercompany financing and intercompany and third party trade transactions.
On a selective basis, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts and purchase option contracts to reduce the impact from the volatility of currency movements; however, we cannot be certain that foreign currency fluctuations will not impact our operations in the future.
We hedge approximately 5% to 10% of the nominal amount of our known foreign exchange transactional exposures.
We primarily enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to reduce the earnings and cash flow impact of the variation of non-functional currency denominated receivables and payables.
Gains and losses resulting from hedging instruments offset the foreign exchange gains or losses on the underlying assets and liabilities being hedged.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are recognized in the same period as gains and losses on the hedged items.
We also selectively hedge anticipated transactions that are subject to foreign exchange exposure, primarily with foreign currency exchange contracts, which are designated as cash flow hedges in accordance with Topic 815 - Derivatives and Hedging.
At December 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we estimate that an unfavorable 10% movement in the exchange rates would have adversely changed our hedge valuations by approximately $6.9 million and $2.8 million, respectively.
