item1.txt
This report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 30, 2017, should be read in conjunction with the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on November 14, 2017.
On June 1, 2017, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Company designs and develops pharmaceutical simulation software to promote cost-effective solutions to a number of problems in pharmaceutical research and in the education of pharmacy and medical students, and it provides consulting services to the pharmaceutical and chemical industries.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Simulations Plus, Inc. and, as of September 2, 2014, its wholly owned subsidiary, Cognigen Corporation, and as of June 1, 2017, the accounts of DILIsym Services, Inc. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
The Company provides, for a fee, additional training and service calls to its customers and recognizes revenue at the time the training or service call is provided.
Amortization of capitalized software development costs is calculated on a product-by-product basis on the straight-line method over the estimated economic life of the products (not to exceed five years).
Amortization of software development costs amounted to $285,310 and $284,217 for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
As of November 30, 2017, the Company determined that it has three reporting units, Simulations Plus, Cognigen Corporation, and DILIsym Services, Inc. When testing goodwill for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform step one of a two-step annual goodwill impairment test for each reporting unit.
The Company is required to perform step one only if it concludes that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying value.
Should this be the case, the first step of the two-step process is to identify whether a potential impairment exists by comparing the estimated fair values of the Company's reporting units with their respective book values, including goodwill.
If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds book value, goodwill is considered not to be impaired, and no additional steps are necessary.
If, however, the fair value of the reporting unit is less than book value, then the second step is performed to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any.
The estimate of implied fair value of goodwill is primarily based on an estimate of the discounted cash flows expected to result from that reporting unit, but may require valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as the Company's software, technology, patents, and trademarks.
If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess.
As of November 30, 2017, the entire balance of goodwill was attributed to two of the Company's reporting units, Cognigen Corporation and DILIsym Services.
There were no changes to goodwill, nor has the Company recognized any impairment charges, during the three months’ periods ended November 30, 2017 and 2016.
The Company accounted for the acquisition of Cognigen and DILIsym Services, Inc., using the purchase method of accounting where the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized based on their respective estimated fair values.
Determining the fair value of certain acquired assets and liabilities is subjective in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including, but not limited to, the selection of appropriate valuation methodology, projected revenue, expenses and cash flows, weighted average cost of capital, discount rates, estimates of advertiser and publisher turnover rates, and estimates of terminal values.
As of November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, the Company has a liability for contingent consideration related to its acquisition of the DILIsym Services, Inc. The fair value measurement of the contingent consideration obligations is determined using Level 3 inputs.
Changes in the value of the contingent consideration obligations are recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Amortization expense for each of the three-month periods ended November 30, 2017 and 2016 was $1,875.
Amortization expense for each of the three-month periods ended November 30, 2017 and 2016 was $150,000.
On June 1, 2017, as part of the acquisition of DILIsym Services, Inc. the Company acquired certain developed technologies associated with the drug induced liver disease (DILI).
Amortization expense for the three months ended November 30, 2017 was $79,176 and is included in cost of revenues.
Total amortization expense for intellectual property agreements for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016 was $320,417 and $188,750, respectively.
Amortization expense for each of the three month periods ended November 30, 2017 and 2016 was $89,375 and $36,875, respectively.
If we determine that the asset may not be recoverable, or if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows, we recognize an impairment charge to the extent of the difference between the fair value and the asset's carrying amount.
On June 1, 2017, the Company acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. The agreement provided for a working capital adjustment, an eighteen-month $1,000,000 holdback provision against certain representations and warrantees, and an Earn-out agreement of up to an additional $5,000,000 in Earn-out payments based on earnings over the next three years.
In May 2016 the Company exercised the two, two-year options extending the term of the lease through February 2, 2021 at a fixed rate of $25,000 per month.
The new extension agreement allowed the Company with 90 days’ notice to opt out of the remaining lease in the last two years of the term upon payment of a recapture payment equal to the 3% base payment increase that would have been due under the original agreement.
Furthermore, in February 2005, the shareholders approved an additional 1,000,000 shares, resulting in the total number of shares that may be granted under the Option Plan to 6,000,000.
On February 23, 2007, the Board of Directors adopted and the shareholders approved the 2007 Stock Option Plan under which a total of 1,000,000 shares of common stock had been reserved for issuance.
On February 25, 2014 the shareholders approved an additional 1,000,000 shares increasing the total number of shares that may be granted under the Option Plan to 2,000,000.
During the period ended November 30, 2017 the company issues 2,256 shares of stock to non-management directors of the Company valued at $36,770 as compensation for services rendered to the Company.
Revenue concentration shows that international sales accounted for 35.6% and 31.8% of net sales for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
On May 1, 2017, the Company entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the “Stock Agreement”) with DILIsym Services, Inc (“DILIsym”).
On June 1 2016, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and DILIsym provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies.
Under the terms of the Stock Agreement, as described below, the Company will pay the former shareholders of DILIsym total consideration of approximately $10,463,000.
On June 1, 2017, the Company paid the former shareholders of DILIsym a total of $4,515,982, which included a $4,000,000 initial payment and a preliminary working capital payment of $515,982.
Within three business days following the eighteen-month anniversary of the date of the Stock Agreement, May 1, 2017, and subject to any offsets, the Company will pay the former shareholders of DILIsym a total of $1,000,000.
Goodwill has been provided in the transaction based on estimates of future earnings of this subsidiary including anticipated synergies associated with the positioning of the combined company as a leader in model-based drug development.
Based on the structure of the transaction, the Company does not anticipate benefiting from any tax deductions in future periods for recognized goodwill.
The following consolidated supplemental pro forma information assumes that the acquisition of DILIsym took place on September 1, 2016 for the income statement for the three-month period ended November 30, 2016.
These amounts have been calculated after applying the Company’s accounting policies and adjusting the results of DILIsym to reflect the same expenses in the three-month period ended November 30, 2016.
The adjustments include costs of acquisition, and amortization of intangibles and other technologies acquired during the merger, assuming the fair-value adjustments applied on September 1, 2016, together with consequential tax effects.


item2.txt
Through the integration of Cognigen into Simulations Plus, Simulations Plus became also a leading provider of population modeling and simulation contract research services for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
Our clinical-pharmacology-based consulting services include pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling, clinical trial simulations, data programming, and technical writing services in support of regulatory submissions.
We have also developed software for harnessing cloud-based computing in support of modeling and simulation activities and secure data archiving, and we provide consulting services to improve interdisciplinary collaborations and research and development productivity.
We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and DILIsym provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies.
The acquisition of DILIsym positions the Company as the leading provider of Drug Induced Liver Injury (DILI) modeling and simulation software and contract research services.
In addition to the DILIsym® software for analysis of potential drug-induced liver injury, DILIsym Services, Inc. also has developed a simulation program for analyzing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) called NAFLDsym™.
The difference between DILIsym and NAFLDsym is that DILIsym estimates the potential for a particular drug molecule to induce liver injury (i.e., to cause damage), while NAFLDsym estimates the likelihood of new molecules to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (i.e., to repair damage), and is unique to the mechanisms involved in such treatment.
As such, DILIsym can be a single program that addresses a wide variety of molecules across various companies, while NAFLDsym requires customizing the software for each mechanism of action.
The GastroPlus™ PBPK software from Simulations Plus provides such information; thus, the integration of these technologies will provide a seamless capability for analyzing the potential for drug-induced liver injury for new drug compounds and for investigating the potential for new therapeutic agents to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
We are a global leader focused on improving the ways scientists use knowledge and data to predict the properties and outcomes of pharmaceutical and biotechnology agents, and are one of only two global companies who provide a wide range of preclinical and clinical consulting services and software.
Our innovations in integrating new and existing science in medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, pharmaceutical science, biology, physiology, and machine learning into our software have made us the leading software provider for PBPK modeling and simulation and for prediction of molecular properties from structure.
Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies use our software programs and scientific knowledge to guide early drug discovery (molecule design and screening), preclinical, and clinical development programs.
They also use it to enhance their understanding of the properties of potential new medicines and to use emerging data to improve formulations, select and justify dosing regimens, support the generics industry, optimize clinical trial designs, and simulate outcomes in special populations, such as the elderly and pediatric patients.
GastroPlus simulates the absorption, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of drugs administered to humans and animals, and is currently the most widely used commercial software of its type by pharmaceutical companies, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH), and other government agencies in the U.S. and other countries.
Our goal with GastroPlus is to integrate the most advanced science into user-friendly software to enable pharmaceutical researchers and regulators to perform sophisticated analyses of complex drug behaviors in humans and laboratory animals.
Already the most widely used program in the world for physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK), the addition of these new capabilities is expected to expand the user base in the early pharmaceutical research and development process, while also helping us further penetrate the biopharmaceuticals, food, cosmetics, and general toxicology markets.
This version will add a number of important new capabilities, including improvements to absorption, metabolism, drug-drug interaction, and output reporting, among others.
This unique software program is used by formulation scientists in industry and the FDA to (1) understand the physical mechanisms affecting the disintegration and dissolution rates of various formulations, (2) reduce the number of cut-and-try attempts to design new drug formulations, and (3) design in vitro dissolution experiments to better mimic in vivo (animal and human) conditions.
Current improvements in development and testing include new capabilities to simulate in vitro dissolution experiments for long-acting injectable microspheres as part of our work under the FDA-funded grant mentioned above.
The new standalone PKPlus program has been developed to provide the full level of functionality needed by pharmaceutical industry scientists to perform the analyses and generate the outputs needed to fully satisfy regulatory agency requirements for both more complex NCA as well as compartmental PK modeling.
After receiving considerable feedback on version 1.0, we began modifying the program to include a number of additional features requested by our users and potential users and expect to release the next version early in 2018.
ADMET (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion, and Toxicity) Predictor is a chemistry-based computer program that takes molecular structures (i.e., drawings of molecules represented in various formats) as inputs and predicts approximately 150 different properties for them at an average rate of over 100,000 compounds per hour on a modern laptop computer.
Thus, a chemist can assess the likely success of a large number of existing molecules in a company’s chemical library, as well as molecules that have never been made, by providing only their molecular structures, either by drawing them using a tool such as our MedChem Designer software, or by automatically generating large numbers of molecules using various computer algorithms, including those embedded in our MedChem Studio software.
Although the state of the art of this type of software does not enable identifying the best molecule in a series, it does allow early screening of molecules that are highly likely to fail as potential drug candidates (i.e., the worst molecules, which is usually the majority of a chemical library) before synthesizing and testing them.
In addition, we integrated a number of MedChem Studio features into version 8.0, and created a tighter integration between the two programs when a MedChem Studio license is obtained along with an ADMET Predictor license.
The optional ADMET Modeler Module™ in ADMET Predictor enables scientists to use their own experimental data to quickly create proprietary high-quality predictive models using the same powerful machine-learning methods we use to build our top-ranked property predictions.
Pharmaceutical companies expend substantial time and money conducting a wide variety of experiments on new molecules each year, generating large databases of experimental data.
We provide MedChem Designer for free because we believe that in the long run it will help to increase demand for ADMET Predictor and MedChem Studio, and because most other existing molecule-drawing programs are also provided for free.
MedChem Studio is a powerful software tool that is used both for data mining and for de novo design of new molecules.
Drug development programs rely increasingly on modeling and simulation analyses to support decision-making and submissions to regulatory agencies.
KIWI is a cloud-based web application that was developed to efficiently organize, process, maintain, and communicate the volume of data and results generated by pharmacologists and scientists over the duration of a drug development program.
Leveraging our 20-plus years of experience in providing an architecture supporting modeling and simulation efforts, we have developed KIWI as a secure, validated, enterprise-scale environment, enabling global teams to collaborate on model-based decision making.
This version of KIWI provides our user community with access to new features that accelerate completion of modeling projects by decreasing run times and facilitating the comparison and exporting of results across models.
This latest version introduces a repository within the KIWI Cloud service to facilitate the management and organization of data and documents used and produced to support the modeling and simulation analyses used, in part, to submit new drug applications.
QSP software models are based on the fundamental understanding of complex biological pathways, disease processes, and drug mechanisms of action, integrating information from experiments and forming hypotheses for the next experimental model.
The DILIsym software models a variety of interactions within the hepatocytes to determine whether a particular drug molecule interrupts normal signaling pathways in a manner to induce injury to the cells.
DILIsym can be considered a “shrink wrap” software product, usable across many companies and drug development projects.
NAFLDsym, on the other hand, requires modification for each of a number of different mechanisms of action that potential new drug compounds could use to treat the disease, and so is a customized tool used in consulting projects for each new client project.
Our pharmaceutical software products are designed and developed by our development teams in California (Lancaster, Guerneville, San Jose, and San Diego), North Carolina (Research Triangle Park), and New York (Buffalo).
We believe the continued growth of our pharmaceutical software and services business segment is the result of steadily increasing adoption of simulation and modeling software tools across the pharmaceutical industry, as well as the world-class expertise we offer as consultants to assist companies involved in the research and development of new medicines.
We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and Cognigen provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies.
We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and DILIsym provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies.
The acquisition of DILIsym positions the Company as the leading provider of Drug Induced Liver Injury (DILI) modeling and simulations software and contract research services.
In addition to the DILIsym® software for analysis of potential drug-induced liver injury, DILIsym Services, Inc. also has developed a simulation program for analyzing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) called NAFLDsym™.
Other significant increases in cost of revenues included $97,000 of direct contract expenses paid for testing at DILIsym, and approximately $119,000 of increased training related expenses as well as an additional $79,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired technologies associated with DILIsym’s drug-induced liver injury technologies.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 2.Changes in Securities 


