item1.txt
This report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2018, should be read in conjunction with the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on November 14, 2017.
On June 1, 2017, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Company designs and develops pharmaceutical simulation software to promote cost-effective solutions to a number of problems in pharmaceutical research and in the education of pharmacy and medical students, and it provides consulting services to the pharmaceutical and chemical industries.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Simulations Plus, Inc. and, as of September 2, 2014 and June 1, 2017, respectively, its wholly owned subsidiaries, Cognigen Corporation and DILIsym Services, Inc. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
The Company provides, for a fee, additional training and service calls to its customers and recognizes revenue at the time the training or service call is provided.
For purposes of the statements of cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
Amortization of capitalized software development costs is calculated on a product-by-product basis using the straight-line method over the estimated economic life of the products (not to exceed five years).
Amortization of software development costs amounted to $331,862 and $290,567 for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $952,894 and $864,443 for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
As of May 31, 2018, the Company determined that it has three reporting units, Simulations Plus, Cognigen Corporation, and DILIsym Services, Inc. When testing goodwill for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform step one of a two-step annual goodwill impairment test for each reporting unit.
The Company is required to perform step one only if it concludes that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying value.
Should this be the case, the first step of the two-step process is to identify whether a potential impairment exists by comparing the estimated fair values of the Company's reporting units with their respective book values, including goodwill.
If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds book value, goodwill is considered not to be impaired, and no additional steps are necessary.
If, however, the fair value of the reporting unit is less than book value, then the second step is performed to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any.
The estimate of implied fair value of goodwill is primarily based on an estimate of the discounted cash flows expected to result from that reporting unit but may require valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as the Company's software, technology, patents, and trademarks.
If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess.
As of May 31, 2018, the entire balance of goodwill was attributed to two of the Company's reporting units, Cognigen Corporation and DILIsym Services.
There were no changes to goodwill, nor has the Company recognized any impairment charges, during the three-month periods ended May 31, 2018 and 2017.
The Company accounted for the acquisition of Cognigen and DILIsym Services, Inc., using the purchase method of accounting where the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized based on their respective estimated fair values.
Determining the fair value of certain acquired assets and liabilities is subjective in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including, but not limited to, the selection of appropriate valuation methodology, projected revenue, expenses and cash flows, weighted average cost of capital, discount rates, estimates of advertiser and publisher turnover rates, and estimates of terminal values.
Business acquisitions are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements as of the date of the acquisition.
As of May 31, 2018, and August 31, 2017, the Company has a liability for contingent consideration related to its acquisition of the DILIsym Services, Inc. The fair-value measurement of the contingent consideration obligations is determined using Level 3 inputs.
Accordingly, changes in assumptions could have a material impact on the amount of contingent consideration expense the Company records in any given period.
Changes in the value of the contingent consideration obligations are recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations.
On June 1, 2017, as part of the acquisition of DILIsym Services, Inc. the Company acquired certain developed technologies associated with drug induced liver disease (DILI).
Amortization expense for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018 was $79,176 and $237,500, respectively, and is included in cost of revenues.
Amortization expense for each of the three-month and nine-month periods ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 was $89,375 and $36,875, and $268,125 and $110,625, respectively.
If we determine that the asset may not be recoverable, or if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows, we recognize an impairment charge to the extent of the difference between the fair value and the asset's carrying amount.
The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of the standard on its ongoing financial reporting.
The Company has commenced its assessment of these new standards, developed a project plan to guide the implementation, and is evaluating the impact these new standards will have on its consolidated financial statements.
In the second and third quarters, the company executed a project to evaluate the impact of these changes, which included a review of existing contracts with customers, an evaluation of the specific terms of those contracts and the appropriate treatment under the new standards, and a comparison of that new treatment to the Company’s existing accounting policies, to identify differences.
On June 1, 2017, the Company acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. The agreement provided for a working capital adjustment, an eighteen-month $1,000,000 holdback provision against certain representations and warrantees, and an Earn-out agreement of up to an additional $5,000,000 in Earn-out payments based on earnings over the next three years.
In May 2016 the Company exercised the two, two-year options extending the term of the lease through February 2, 2021 at a fixed rate of $25,000 per month.
The new extension agreement allowed the Company with 90 days’ notice to opt out of the remaining lease in the last two years of the term upon payment of a recapture payment equal to the 3% base payment increase that would have been due under the original agreement.
In the normal course of business, the Company has entered into employment agreements with certain of its key management personnel that may require compensation payments upon termination.
During the three and nine-month periods ended May 31, 2018, the Company issued 2,232 and 6,765 shares of stock to non-management directors of the Company valued at $36,716 and $110,262, respectively as compensation for services rendered to the Company.
While the Company may be exposed to credit losses due to the nonperformance of its counterparties, the Company does not expect the settlement of these transactions to have a material effect on its results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition.
On May 1, 2017, the Company entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the “Stock Agreement”) with DILIsym Services, Inc.
On June 1, 2016, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and DILIsym provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies.
Under the terms of the Stock Agreement, as described below, the Company will pay the former shareholders of DILIsym total consideration of approximately $10,463,000.
On June 1, 2017, the Company paid the former shareholders of DILIsym a total of $4,515,982, which included a $4,000,000 initial payment and a preliminary working capital payment of $515,982.
Within three business days following the eighteen-month anniversary of the date of the Stock Agreement, May 1, 2017, and subject to any offsets, the Company will pay the former shareholders of DILIsym a total of $1,000,000.
Goodwill has been provided in the transaction based on estimates of future earnings of this subsidiary including anticipated synergies associated with the positioning of the combined company as a leader in model-based drug development.
Based on the structure of the transaction, the Company does not anticipate benefiting from any tax deductions in future periods for recognized goodwill.
These amounts have been calculated after applying the Company’s accounting policies and adjusting the results of DILIsym to reflect the same expenses in the three-month period ended May 31, 2017.
The adjustments include costs of acquisition, and amortization of intangibles and other technologies acquired during the merger, assuming the fair-value adjustments applied on September 1, 2016, together with consequential tax effects.


item2.txt
We are a global leader focused on improving the ways scientists use knowledge and data to predict the properties and outcomes of pharmaceutical and biotechnology agents, and are one of only two global companies who provide a wide range of early discovery, preclinical, and clinical consulting services and software.
Our innovations in integrating new and existing science in medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, pharmaceutical science, biology, physiology, and machine learning into our software have made us the leading software provider for PBPK modeling and simulation, prediction of molecular properties from structure, and prediction of drugs to induce liver injury or to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies use our software programs and scientific knowledge to guide early drug discovery (molecule design and screening), preclinical, and clinical development programs.
They also use it to enhance their understanding of the properties of potential new medicines and to use emerging data to improve formulations, select and justify dosing regimens, support the generics industry, optimize clinical trial designs, and simulate outcomes in special populations, such as the elderly and pediatric patients.
Through the integration of Cognigen into Simulations Plus, Simulations Plus became also a leading provider of population modeling and simulation contract research services for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
Our clinical-pharmacology-based consulting services include pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling, clinical trial simulations, data programming, and technical writing services in support of regulatory submissions.
We have also developed software for harnessing cloud-based computing in support of modeling and simulation activities and secure data archiving, and we provide consulting services to improve interdisciplinary collaborations and research and development productivity.
We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and DILIsym provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies.
The acquisition of DILIsym positions the Company as the leading provider of Drug Induced Liver Injury (DILI) modeling and simulation software and contract research services.
In addition to the DILIsym® software for analysis of potential drug-induced liver injury, DILIsym Services, Inc. also has developed a simulation program for analyzing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) called NAFLDsym™.
The difference between DILIsym and NAFLDsym is that DILIsym estimates the potential for a particular drug molecule to induce liver injury (i.e., to cause damage), while NAFLDsym estimates the likelihood of new molecules to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (i.e., to repair damage), and is unique to the mechanisms involved in such treatment.
As such, DILIsym can be a single program that addresses a wide variety of molecules across various companies, while NAFLDsym requires customizing the software for each mechanism of action.
The GastroPlus™ PBPK software from Simulations Plus provides such information; thus, the integration of these technologies will provide a seamless capability for analyzing the potential for drug-induced liver injury for new drug compounds and for investigating the potential for new therapeutic agents to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
In September 2014, we entered into a research collaboration agreement (RCA) with the FDA to enhance the Ocular Compartmental Absorption and Transit (OCAT™) model within the Additional Dosing Routes Module of GastroPlus.
Already the most widely used program in the world for physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK), the addition of these new capabilities is expected to expand the user base in the early pharmaceutical research and development process, while also helping us to further penetrate biopharmaceuticals, food, cosmetics, and general toxicology markets.
This unique software program is used by formulation scientists in industry and the FDA to (1) understand the physical mechanisms affecting the disintegration and dissolution rates of various formulations, (2) reduce the number of cut-and-try attempts to design new drug formulations, and (3) design in vitro dissolution experiments to better mimic in vivo (animal and human) conditions.
Current improvements in development and testing include new capabilities to simulate in vitro dissolution experiments for long-acting injectable microspheres as part of our work under the FDA-funded grant mentioned above.
Similar to DDDPlus, MembranePlus mechanistically simulates laboratory experiments, but in this case, the experiments are for measuring permeability of drug-like molecules through various membranes, including several different standard cell cultures (Caco-2, MDCK), as well as artificially formulated membranes (PAMPA).
On August 25, 2016, we announced the release of a new standalone software product called PKPlus, based on the internal PKPlus Module in GastroPlus that has been available since 2000.
The standalone PKPlus program provides the full level of functionality needed by pharmaceutical industry scientists to perform the analyses and generate the outputs needed to fully satisfy regulatory agency requirements for both more complex NCA as well as compartmental PK modeling.
After receiving considerable feedback on version 1.0, we began modifying the program to include a number of additional features requested by our users and potential users for release in version 2.0.
ADMET (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion, and Toxicity) Predictor is a chemistry-based computer program that takes molecular structures (i.e., drawings of molecules represented in various formats) as inputs and predicts approximately 150 different properties for them at an average rate of over 100,000 compounds per hour on a modern laptop computer.
Thus, a chemist can assess the likely success of a large number of existing molecules in a company’s chemical library, as well as molecules that have never been made, by providing only their molecular structures, either by drawing them using a tool such as our MedChem Designer software, or by automatically generating large numbers of molecules using various computer algorithms, including those embedded in our MedChem Studio software.
Although the state of the art of this type of software does not enable identifying the best molecule in a series, it does allow early screening of molecules that are highly likely to fail as potential drug candidates (i.e., the worst molecules, which is typically the majority of a virtual chemical library) before synthesizing and testing them.
MedChem Studio is a powerful software tool that is used both for data mining and for de novo design of new molecules.
Drug development programs rely increasingly on modeling and simulation analyses to support decision-making and submissions to regulatory agencies.
KIWI is a cloud-based web application that was developed to efficiently organize, process, maintain, and communicate the volume of data and results generated by pharmacologists and scientists over the duration of a drug development program.
Leveraging our 20-plus years of experience in providing an architecture supporting modeling and simulation efforts, we have developed KIWI as a secure, validated, enterprise-scale environment, enabling global teams to collaborate on model-based decision making.
This version of KIWI provided our user community with access to new features that accelerated completion of modeling projects by decreasing run times and facilitating the comparison and exporting of results across models.
This latest version introduces a repository within the KIWI Cloud service to facilitate the management and organization of data and documents used and produced to support the modeling and simulation analyses used, in part, to submit new drug applications.
DILIsym can be considered a “shrink wrap” software product, usable across many companies and drug development projects.
NAFLDsym, on the other hand, requires modification for each of a number of different mechanisms of action that potential new drug compounds could use to treat the disease, and so is a customized tool used in consulting projects for each new client project.
Development of our software is focused on expanding product lines, designing enhancements to our core technologies, and integrating existing and new products into our principal software architecture and platform technologies.
We market our pharmaceutical software and consulting services through attendance and presentations at scientific meetings, exhibits at trade shows, seminars at pharmaceutical companies and government agencies, through our website, and using various communication channels to our database of prospects and customers.
In addition, more than 50 peer-reviewed scientific journal articles, posters, and podium presentations are typically published each year using our software, mostly by our customers, further supporting its use in a wide range of preclinical and clinical studies.
Our pharmaceutical software products are designed and developed by our development teams in California (Lancaster, Guerneville, San Jose, and San Diego), North Carolina (Research Triangle Park), and New York (Buffalo); team members in most cases can work remotely using collaboration software.
We believe the continued growth of our pharmaceutical software and services business segment is the result of steadily increasing adoption of simulation and modeling software tools across the pharmaceutical industry, as well as the world-class expertise we offer as consultants to assist companies involved in the research and development of new medicines.
We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and Cognigen provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies.
We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and DILIsym provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies.
The acquisition of DILIsym positions the Company as the leading provider of Drug Induced Liver Injury (DILI) modeling and simulations software and contract research services.
In addition to the DILIsym® software for analysis of potential drug-induced liver injury, DILIsym Services, Inc. also has developed a simulation program for analyzing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) called NAFLDsym™.
Consolidated software and software-related sales increased $830,000 or 17.4%, while consolidated consulting and analytical study revenues increased $974,000 or 49.1% over 3QFY17.
Other significant increases in cost of revenues included $179,000 of direct contract expenses paid for testing at DILIsym, an increase of $41,000 of software amortization, as well as an additional $79,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired technologies associated with DILIsym’s drug-induced liver injury technologies.
Consolidated software and software-related sales increased $1,594,000 or 13.3%, while consolidated consulting and analytical study revenues increased $3.51 million or 59.8% over 9moFY17.
Other significant increases in cost of revenues included $88,000 of software amortization, $458,000 of direct contract expenses paid for testing at DILIsym, as well as an additional $237,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired technologies associated with DILIsym’s drug-induced liver injury technologies.


part2.txt
Changes in Securities  
Defaults Upon Senior Securities  


