As of June 30, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
Our chief operating decision maker uses consolidated financial information to make operating decisions, assess financial performance and allocate resources.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.We achieved a significant milestone on this strategy by recently announcing our new comprehensive Cloud Solution for Faith Communities with the introduction of Blackbaud Church Management™.
We expect the general release of Blackbaud Church Management in mid-2019.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity.
selling strategy by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term.
We recently released new fundraising benchmarking capabilities in Raisers Edge NXT™ that complement the existing set of SKY Reporting™ tools and leverage Blackbaud's proprietary data, giving our customers the ability to compare their performance in key fundraising metrics against their peers.
We have been executing this strategy for several years and have expanded our TAM by roughly $2 billion through acquired businesses.
During the second quarter of 2018, we acquired Reeher, expanding our fundraising performance management capabilities with the intent to drive more effective fundraising and greater social good outcomes for our customers.
During the second quarter of 2018, we moved into our new global headquarters and the employee feedback has been overwhelmingly positive.
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices outside of Charleston, South Carolina to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments.
The increases in total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see strong demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.