fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Our chief operating decision maker uses consolidated financial information to make operating decisions, assess financial performance and allocate resources.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.


item2.txt
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing, and analytics.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our expanded sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity and effectiveness.
We have been executing this strategy for several years and have expanded our TAM by roughly $2 billion through acquired businesses over the last two years.
During the second quarter of 2017, we acquired AcademicWorks, adding scholarship management and stewardship software to our portfolio.
We quickly integrated their back office for consistency and scale and have expanded sales into Canada and the United Kingdom (the "UK") by integrating the solutions into our international sales channels.
This has empowered our employees to improve their daily lives, advance the Blackbaud's strategic objectives, and ultimately drive more value to our customers.
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we also initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments.
The increase in total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see strong demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
One-time services and other revenue declined during the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytic, training and payments services, and require less implementation services.
Income from operations increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017.
The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions outpaced the related costs and was partially offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization and customer success program and, to a lesser extent, increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million and restructuring costs of $0.8 million.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides an accurate representation of our customers' overall behavior.
For the twelve months ended March 31, 2018, approximately 93% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained.
This customer retention rate is relatively unchanged from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



