fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the documents incorporated herein by reference, contains forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty.


item1.txt
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2018, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Our chief operating decision maker uses consolidated financial information to make operating decisions, assess financial performance and allocate resources.
Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019, as we recognized $121.6 million of lease liabilities and $113.4 million of right-of-use ("ROU") assets for those leases classified as operating leases.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense for lease payments related to our operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately.
We do not recognize short-term leases (those that, at the commencement date, have a lease term of 12 months or less) on our consolidated balance sheets.
Variable lease payments, which are primarily comprised of common-area maintenance, utilities and real estate taxes that are passed on from the lessor in proportion to the space leased by us, are recognized in operating expenses in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.


item2.txt
Churches can also add other Blackbaud capabilities from the Cloud Solution for Faith Communities as their needs scale—all through one integrated experience, which is powered by the Blackbaud SKY platform.
We're excited about the opportunity to disrupt the market landscape by providing this peer-to-peer solution, which is fully integrated across our portfolio of best-in-class cloud solutions.
Since January, we have moved quickly on back-office integration so we can focus on the opportunity ahead of us, which is significant given the trend in institutions of all sizes focusing on corporate social responsibility.
We have spent the last several years creating one global sales operating model, which allows us to recruit, hire, train and track the progress of a growing sales team in a way we could not have done in the past.
This has been a multi-year program for us, and we expect to be largely complete by the end of 2019.
The increases in total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $3.8 million and $9.4 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
We are also selling more subscription-based contracts for retained services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts.
As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.
Income from operations increased during the three months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018.
Increases in stock-based compensation of $1.2 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $0.6 million, also negatively impacted income from operations during the three months ended June 30, 2019.
Income from operations decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018.
Increases in stock-based compensation of $3.8 million, employee severance of $2.6 million, rent expense of $1.6 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.7 million, also negatively impacted income from operations during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018.
The increase in employee severance was related to the elimination of certain roles within the company.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



