fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the documents incorporated herein by reference, contains forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty.


item1.txt
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2018, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Our chief operating decision maker uses consolidated financial information to make operating decisions, assess financial performance and allocate resources.
Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019, as we recognized $121.6 million of lease liabilities and $113.4 million of right-of-use ("ROU") assets for those leases classified as operating leases.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any initial direct costs and lease payments made and excludes lease incentives.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense for lease payments related to our operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately.
We do not recognize short-term leases (those that, at the commencement date, have a lease term of 12 months or less) on our consolidated balance sheets.
Variable lease payments, which are primarily comprised of common-area maintenance, utilities and real estate taxes that are passed on from the lessor in proportion to the space leased by us, are recognized in operating expenses in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
1.Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions This strategy reflects our relentless focus on driving value and outcomes for our customers through our solutions.
Among the many product and innovation updates across all of our vertical markets, we recently announced the general availability of Blackbaud Church Management™, which is already transforming the church technology landscape.
In January 2019, we acquired YourCause, a market leader in corporate social responsibility software, and our ability to move fast on back-office integration is enabling us to further differentiate our solutions from the competition.
This continuous effort spans the entire organization as we drive towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments.
For example, we are now selling a portfolio of modern cloud solutions, which is driving a shift away from one-time services as we reduce the hours needed for implementation and integration of our solutions.
As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $5.0 million and $14.3 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
We are also selling more subscription-based contracts for retained services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts.
As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.
Income from operations decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018.
Contributing to the decreases in income from operations were increases in stock-based compensation of $4.1 million and $7.9 million, respectively, and hosting and data center costs of $1.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively.
Increases in employee severance of $1.9 million, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.8 million and rent expense of $1.7 million, also negatively impacted income from operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The increases in stock-based compensation expense were primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018.
The increase in rent expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily associated with the lease for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.
The increase in employee severance was related to the elimination of certain roles within the company, most of which occurred during the first quarter of 2019.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



