fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Our chief operating decision maker uses consolidated financial information to make operating decisions, assess financial performance and allocate resources.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
In general, when we are the principal in a transaction based on the factors identified in ASC 606-10-55-36 through 55-40, we record the revenue and related costs on a gross basis.
For payment and transaction services, we have the right to invoice the customer in an amount that directly corresponds with the value to the customer of our performance to date.
Therefore, we recognize revenue for these services over time based on the amount billable to the customer in accordance with the 'as invoiced' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-55-18.


item2.txt
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
We recently achieved several significant milestones on this strategy, first by announcing our new comprehensive Cloud Solution for Faith Communities with the introduction of Blackbaud Church Management™.
We expect the general release of Blackbaud Church Management in mid-2019.
Second, at our 2018 annual user conference, bbcon, we announced our new Cloud Solution for Higher Education with the introduction of a new Education Management portfolio along with stewardship management and guided fundraising capabilities tailored for higher education.
Third, we announced with Microsoft that we are investing in an Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits™, which will accelerate cloud innovation in areas that address critical market needs across the mission lifecycle of nonprofits.
As part of this initiative, we announced our first jointly-developed solution suite called Nonprofit Resource Management™, which is a breakthrough in helping nonprofits effectively source, track, distribute, and measure the impact of their resources across core business processes from managing the distribution of material goods to financial and human capital distribution.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity.
Our sales account executives now lead with a total-solution selling strategy by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term.
We continue to innovate and acquire solutions that create value for our customers, such as our new Cloud Solutions for Faith Communities and Higher Education and the Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits with Microsoft, as discussed above.
We have been executing this strategy for several years and have expanded our TAM by approximately $2 billion through acquired businesses.
During the second quarter of 2018, we acquired Reeher, expanding our fundraising performance management capabilities with the intent to drive more effective fundraising and greater social good outcomes for our customers.
With the introduction of our new Cloud Solutions for Faith Communities and Higher Education and the Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits, we are now in a position to organically build and not just acquire incremental TAM.
We continue driving towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives and organizational re-alignments.
The increases in total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
The inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher also contributed to the increases in recurring and total revenue.
One-time services and other revenue declined during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



