Amounts as of April 29, 2018 are unaudited. Amounts as of October 29, 2017 are derived from the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein. These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 (2017 Form 10-K). Applied’s results of operations for the three and six months ended April 29, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year. Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contain 52 weeks, and the first half of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 26 weeks. 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Inventory Measurement. In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance that requires inventory to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value instead of at lower of cost or market. This guidance does not apply to inventory that is measured using last-in, first out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method but applies to all other inventory including those measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or the average cost method. Applied adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 prospectively to measurement of inventory after the effective date. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Share-Based Compensation. In March 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including forfeitures, income tax, and classification on the statement of cash flows. Applied adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Upon adoption, Applied elected to continue to estimate forfeitures expected to occur to determine the amount of compensation costs to be recognized in each period. The new standard also required recognition of excess tax benefits in the provision for income taxes rather than additional paid-in capital prospectively. In the six months ended April 29, 2018, Applied recognized an excess tax benefit of $53 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations. Additionally, Applied elected to apply the presentation requirements for cash flows related to excess tax benefits and employee taxes paid for withheld shares retrospectively. Adopting this guidance increased cash provided by operating activities by a net $159 million with a corresponding net decrease in cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended April 30, 2017.
Derivatives and Hedging. In August 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that modifies the recognition and presentation of hedge accounting to better align an entity’s risk management strategies and financial reporting for hedging relationships. The authoritative guidance expands the application of hedge accounting for non-financial and financial risk components and eases certain hedge effectiveness assessment requirements. The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, with early adoption permitted. Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Retirement Benefits. In March 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which requires companies to present the service cost component of net benefit cost in the same line items in which they report compensation cost. The other components of net benefit cost are required to be presented in the income statement separately from the service cost component and outside a subtotal of income from operations, if one is presented. The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a retrospective basis, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this guidance is only expected to result in reclassification of other components of net benefit costs outside of income from operations and is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Business Combinations. In January 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that clarifies the definition of a business to help companies evaluate whether acquisition or disposal transactions should be accounted for as asset groups or as businesses. The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a prospective basis, with early adoption permitted. The impact of the adoption depends on the facts and circumstances of future acquisition or disposal transactions.
Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. In August 2016, a new authoritative guidance was issued which addresses classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments related to the statement of cash flows. The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for lease accounting, which requires lessees to recognize lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for certain lease arrangements that are classified as operating leases under the previous standard, and to provide for enhanced disclosures. The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and should be applied using a modified retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted. Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition. In May 2014, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that requires revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services, and requires certain additional disclosures. This new standard will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. Entities will have the option of using either a full retrospective or modified retrospective approach to adopting the guidance. In August 2015, the FASB issued an amendment to defer the effective date by one year and allow entities to early adopt no earlier than the original effective date. With this amendment, the guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, which is the Company’s planned adoption date. Applied currently anticipates adopting this new guidance using the full retrospective approach, although this continues to be assessed as part of the overall evaluation. 
In fiscal 2016, Applied established a project steering committee and cross-functional implementation team to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to Applied’s revenue contracts. In addition, the implementation team is also responsible for identifying and implementing changes to business processes, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard. While the Company’s evaluation of the impact of this new guidance is not complete, Applied currently expects the timing of revenue recognition for certain products to be earlier than under current revenue recognition guidance. Applied will continue to complete its evaluation of the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s financial position, results of operations and its ongoing financial reporting, and its preliminary assessments are subject to change.
Basic earnings per share is determined using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is determined using the weighted average number of common shares and potential common shares (representing the dilutive effect of stock options, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchase plan shares) outstanding during the period. Applied’s net income has not been adjusted for any period presented for purposes of computing basic or diluted earnings per share due to the Company’s non-complex capital structure. 
During the three and six months ended April 29, 2018 and April 30, 2017, gross realized gains and losses on investments were not material.
Applied’s financial assets are measured and recorded at fair value, except for equity investments in privately-held companies. These equity investments are generally accounted for under the cost method of accounting and are periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment when events or circumstances indicate that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. Applied’s nonfinancial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
Applied’s investments consist primarily of debt securities that are classified as available-for-sale and recorded at their fair values. In determining the fair value of investments, Applied uses pricing information from pricing services that value securities based on quoted market prices and models that utilize observable market inputs. In the event a fair value estimate is unavailable from a pricing service, Applied generally obtains non-binding price quotes from brokers. Applied then reviews the information provided by the pricing services or brokers to determine the fair value of its short-term and long-term investments. In addition, to validate pricing information obtained from pricing services, Applied periodically performs supplemental analysis on a sample of securities. Applied reviews any significant unanticipated differences identified through this analysis to determine the appropriate fair value.
Investments with remaining effective maturities of 12 months or less from the balance sheet date are classified as short-term investments. Investments with remaining effective maturities of more than 12 months from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term investments. As of April 29, 2018, substantially all of Applied’s available-for-sale, short-term and long-term investments were recognized at fair value that was determined based upon observable inputs.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the three and six months ended April 29, 2018 or April 30, 2017. Applied did not have any financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements as of April 29, 2018 or October 29, 2017.
Equity investments in privately-held companies are generally accounted for under the cost method of accounting and are periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. If Applied determines that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred, the investment will be written down to its estimated fair value based on available information, such as pricing in recent rounds of financing, current cash positions, earnings and cash flow forecasts, recent operational performance and any other readily available market data. As of April 29, 2018, equity investments in privately-held companies totaled $80 million, of which $64 million of these investments were accounted for under the cost method of accounting and $16 million of investments had been measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements due to an other-than-temporary decline in value. As of October 29, 2017, equity investments in privately-held companies totaled $74 million, of which $65 million of these investments were accounted for under the cost method of accounting and $9 million of investments had been measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements due to an other-than-temporary decline in value. Impairment charges on equity investments in privately-held companies during the three and six months ended April 29, 2018 and April 30, 2017 were not material.
The carrying amounts of Applied’s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, notes payable - short term, and accounts payable and accrued expenses, approximate fair value due to their short maturities. As of April 29, 2018 the carrying amount of long-term debt was $5.3 billion and the estimated fair value was $5.6 billion. As of October 29, 2017, the carrying amount of long-term debt was $5.3 billion and the estimated fair value was $5.8 billion. The estimated fair value of long-term debt is determined by Level 2 inputs and is based primarily on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues. See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for further detail of existing debt. 
Applied conducts business in a number of foreign countries, with certain transactions denominated in local currencies, such as the Japanese yen, euro, Israeli shekel and Taiwanese dollar. Applied uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward exchange contracts and currency option contracts, to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions expected to occur typically within the next 24 months. The purpose of Applied’s foreign currency management is to mitigate the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated revenues, costs and eventual cash flows. The terms of currency instruments used for hedging purposes are generally consistent with the timing of the transactions being hedged. 
Applied does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Derivative instruments and hedging activities, including foreign currency exchange and interest rate contracts, are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge treatment, as well as the ineffective portion of any hedges, are recognized currently in earnings. All of Applied’s derivative financial instruments are recorded at their fair value in other current assets or in accounts payable and accrued expenses. 
Hedges related to anticipated transactions are designated and documented at the inception of the hedge as cash flow hedges and foreign exchange derivatives are typically entered into once per month. Cash flow hedges are evaluated for effectiveness quarterly. The effective portion of the gain or loss on these hedges is reported as a component of AOCI in stockholders’ equity and is reclassified into earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings. The majority of the after-tax net income or loss related to foreign exchange derivative instruments included in AOCI as of April 29, 2018 is expected to be reclassified into earnings within 12 months. Changes in the fair value of currency forward exchange and option contracts due to changes in time value are excluded from the assessment of effectiveness. Both ineffective hedge amounts and hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings. If the transaction being hedged is no longer probable to occur, or if a portion of any derivative is deemed to be ineffective, Applied promptly recognizes the gain or loss on the associated financial instrument in earnings. The amount recognized due to discontinuance of cash flow hedges that were probable not to occur by the end of the originally specified time period was not significant for the three and six months ended April 29, 2018 and April 30, 2017.
Additionally, forward exchange contracts are generally used to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. These derivatives are typically entered into once per month and are not designated for hedge accounting treatment. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of these hedges are recorded in earnings to offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged.
The fair values of foreign exchange derivative instruments as of April 29, 2018 and October 29, 2017 were not material. 
If Applied’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade, it would be in violation of credit risk contingent provisions of the derivative instruments discussed above, and certain counterparties to the derivative instruments could request immediate payment on derivative instruments in net liability positions. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk related contingent features that were in a net liability position was immaterial as of April 29, 2018.
Applied has agreements with various financial institutions to sell accounts receivable and discount promissory notes from selected customers. Applied sells its accounts receivable without recourse. Applied, from time to time, also discounts letters of credit issued by customers through various financial institutions. The discounting of letters of credit depends on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to discount the letters of credit and the cost of such arrangements. 
Accounts receivable are presented net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $34 million as of April 29, 2018 and October 29, 2017. Applied sells its products principally to manufacturers within the semiconductor and display industries. While Applied believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate and represents its best estimate as of April 29, 2018, it continues to closely monitor customer liquidity and industry and economic conditions, which may result in changes to Applied’s estimates. 
Included in finished goods inventory are $290 million as of April 29, 2018, and $331 million as of October 29, 2017, of newly-introduced systems at customer locations where the sales transaction did not meet Applied’s revenue recognition criteria as set forth in Note 1. Finished goods inventory includes $327 million and $281 million of evaluation inventory as of April 29, 2018 and October 29, 2017, respectively.
Applied typically receives deposits on future deliverables from customers in the Display and Adjacent Markets segment and, in certain instances, may also receive deposits from customers in the Applied Global Services segment.
Applied’s methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established and generally accepted valuation techniques. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the purchase price over the sum of the amounts assigned to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired less liabilities assumed. Applied assigns assets acquired (including goodwill) and liabilities assumed to one or more reporting units as of the date of acquisition. Typically, acquisitions relate to a single reporting unit and thus do not require the allocation of goodwill to multiple reporting units. If the products obtained in an acquisition are assigned to multiple reporting units, the goodwill is distributed to the respective reporting units as part of the purchase price allocation process.
To test goodwill for impairment, Applied first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, Applied then performs the two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. Under the two-step goodwill impairment test, Applied would in the first step compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. Applied determines the fair value of each of its reporting units based on a weighting of income and market approaches. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference.
As of April 29, 2018, Applied’s reporting units include Semiconductor Product Group and Imaging and Process Control Group, which combine to form the Semiconductor Systems reporting segment, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets. 
Applied amortizes purchased intangible assets with finite lives using the straight-line method over the estimated economic lives of the assets, ranging from 1 to 15 years.
Applied evaluates long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable. Applied assesses the fair value of the assets based on the amount of the undiscounted future cash flow that the assets are expected to generate and recognizes an impairment loss when estimated undiscounted future cash flow expected to result from the use of the asset, plus net proceeds expected from disposition of the asset, if any, are less than the carrying value of the asset. When Applied identifies an impairment, Applied reduces the carrying value of the group of assets to comparable market values, when available and appropriate, or to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash flow approach.
Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition. The value assigned to intangible assets is usually based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. Applied evaluates the useful lives of its intangible assets each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances require revising the remaining period of amortization. In addition, Applied reviews intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable. Management considers such indicators as significant differences in actual product acceptance from the estimates, changes in the competitive and economic environments, technological advances, and changes in cost structure.
The tax effects on net income of amounts reclassified from AOCI for the three and six months ended April 29, 2018 and April 30, 2017 were not material.
Applied records treasury stock purchases under the cost method using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Upon reissuance of treasury stock, amounts in excess of the acquisition cost are credited to additional paid in capital. If Applied reissues treasury stock at an amount below its acquisition cost and additional paid in capital associated with prior treasury stock transactions is insufficient to cover the difference between the acquisition cost and the reissue price, this difference is recorded against retained earnings. 
In February 2018 and December 2017, Applied’s Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.20 per share and $0.10 per share, respectively. Dividends paid during the six months ended April 29, 2018 and April 30, 2017 totaled $211 million and $216 million, respectively. Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders. 
Applied has a stockholder-approved equity plan, the Employee Stock Incentive Plan, which permits grants to employees of share-based awards, including stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units. In addition, the plan provides for the automatic grant of restricted stock units to non-employee directors and permits the grant of share-based awards to non-employee directors and consultants. Share-based awards made under the plan may be subject to accelerated vesting under certain circumstances in the event of a change in control of Applied. Applied also has two Employee Stock Purchase Plans, one generally for United States employees and a second for employees of international subsidiaries (collectively, ESPP), which enable eligible employees to purchase Applied common stock. 
As of April 29, 2018, Applied had $447 million in total unrecognized compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to grants of share-based awards and shares issued under Applied’s ESPP, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.7 years. As of April 29, 2018, there were 82 million shares available for grants of share-based awards under the Employee Stock Incentive Plan, and an additional 19 million shares available for issuance under the ESPP.
As of April 29, 2018, 1 million additional performance-based awards could be earned based upon achievement of certain levels of specified performance goals.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, certain executive officers were granted awards that are subject to the achievement of specified performance goals. These awards become eligible to vest only if performance goals are achieved and will vest only if the grantee remains employed by Applied through each applicable vesting date. Certain awards require the achievement of positive adjusted operating profit and vest ratably over three years. Other awards require the achievement of targeted levels of adjusted operating margin and wafer fabrication equipment market share, and the number of shares that may vest in full after three years ranges from 0% to 200% of the target amount. 
The fair value of these awards is estimated on the date of grant. If the goals are achieved, the awards will vest, provided that the grantee remains employed by Applied through each applicable vesting date. If the performance goals are not met as of the end of the performance period, no compensation expense is recognized and any previously recognized compensation expense is reversed. The expected cost is based on the awards that are probable to vest and is reflected over the service period and reduced for estimated forfeitures. 
The Tax Act also includes provisions that do not affect Applied in fiscal 2018, including a provision designed to tax global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”). Due to the complexity of the GILTI tax rules, this provision and related tax accounting will continue to be evaluated. An accounting policy choice is allowed to either treat taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI as a current-period expense when incurred (the “period cost method”) or factor such amounts into the measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”). The calculation of the deferred balance with respect to the new GILTI tax provisions will depend, in part, on analyzing global income to determine whether future U.S. inclusions in taxable income are expected related to GILTI and, if so, what the impact is expected to be. An accounting policy choice has not yet been made.
Applied’s effective tax rates for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 were 12.8 percent and 9.3 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was higher than in the same period in the prior year primarily due to $71 million of income tax expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 related to adjustments in the transition tax and the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets under the Tax Act. Applied’s effective tax rates for the first half of fiscal 2018 and 2017 were 48.6 percent and 9.1 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal 2018 was higher than in the same period in the prior year primarily due to $1.1 billion of income tax expense for the transition tax and the decrease in U.S. deferred tax assets under the Tax Act. This was partially offset by the recognition of a tax benefit of $53 million related to the adoption of authoritative guidance for share-based compensation, the effect of the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate, and changes in the geographical composition of income.
 Applied products are generally sold with a warranty for a 12-month period following installation. The provision for the estimated cost of warranty is recorded when revenue is recognized. Parts and labor are covered under the terms of the warranty agreement. The warranty provision is based on historical experience by product, configuration and geographic region. Quarterly warranty consumption is generally associated with sales that occurred during the preceding four quarters, and quarterly warranty provisions are generally related to the current quarter’s sales.
In the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to third parties as required for certain transactions initiated by either Applied or its subsidiaries. As of April 29, 2018, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee agreements was approximately $64 million. Applied has not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee agreements beyond that required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed. Applied does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these guarantee agreements.
Applied also has agreements with various banks to facilitate subsidiary banking operations worldwide, including overdraft arrangements, issuance of bank guarantees, and letters of credit. As of April 29, 2018, Applied has provided parent guarantees to banks for approximately $150 million to cover these arrangements.
The Semiconductor Systems reportable segment includes semiconductor capital equipment for etch, rapid thermal processing, deposition, chemical mechanical planarization, metrology and inspection, wafer packaging, and ion implantation.
The Applied Global Services segment provides integrated solutions to optimize equipment and fab performance and productivity, including spares, upgrades, services, certain remanufactured earlier generation equipment and factory automation software for semiconductor, display and other products. 
The Display and Adjacent Markets segment includes products for manufacturing liquid crystal displays (LCDs), organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs), equipment upgrades and flexible coating systems and other display technologies for TVs, personal computers, smart phones, and other consumer-oriented devices.
Each operating segment is separately managed and has separate financial results that are reviewed by Applied’s chief operating decision-maker. Each reportable segment contains closely related products that are unique to the particular segment. Segment operating income is determined based upon internal performance measures used by Applied’s chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker does not evaluate operating segments using total asset information.
Applied derives the segment results directly from its internal management reporting system. The accounting policies Applied uses to derive reportable segment results are substantially the same as those used for external reporting purposes. Management measures the performance of each reportable segment based upon several metrics including net sales and operating income. Management uses these results to evaluate the performance of, and to assign resources to, each of the reportable segments. 
The following customers accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales for the six months ended April 29, 2018, and sales to these customers included products and services from multiple reportable segments.
The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 12 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy.
Applied maintains an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges. Applied also maintains cash balances in various bank accounts globally in order to fund normal operations. If any of these financial institutions becomes insolvent, it could limit Applied’s ability to access cash in the affected accounts, which could affect its ability to manage its operations.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
•uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries, including for the manufacture and sale of semiconductors and displays in the developing economies of certain countries.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates.
•the increasing focus on reducing energy usage and improving the environmental impact and sustainability associated with manufacturing operations.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the semiconductor industry.
•the increasing fragmentation of semiconductor markets, leading certain markets to become too small to support the cost of a new fabrication plant, while others require less technologically advanced products.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the display industry.
The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes.
•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
Applied’s indebtedness and debt covenants could adversely affect its financial condition and business.
Applied has $5.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding. Under the indenture governing the senior unsecured notes, it may be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, upon a change of control of Applied and a contemporaneous downgrade of the notes below investment grade. Applied also has in place a $1.5 billion committed revolving credit agreement. While no amounts were outstanding under this credit agreement as of April 29, 2018, Applied may borrow amounts in the future under the agreement. Applied may also enter into new financing arrangements. Applied’s ability to satisfy its debt obligations is dependent upon the results of its business operations and subject to other risks discussed in this section. Significant changes in Applied’s credit rating or changes in the interest rate environment could have a material adverse consequence on Applied’s access to and cost of capital for future financings, and financial condition. If Applied fails to satisfy its debt obligations, or comply with financial and other debt covenants, it may be in default and any borrowings may become immediately due and payable, and such default may also constitute a default under other of Applied’s obligations. There can be no assurance that Applied would have sufficient financial resources or be able to arrange financing to repay any borrowings at such time. 
Applied is exposed to risks associated with expanding into new and related markets and industries.
•natural disasters or other events beyond Applied’s control (such as earthquakes, floods or storms, regional economic downturns, pandemics, social unrest, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war), particularly where it conducts manufacturing.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights.
Applied is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity threats and incidents.
In the conduct of its business, Applied collects, uses, transmits and stores data on information technology systems, including systems owned and maintained by Applied or third party providers. These data include confidential information and intellectual property belonging to Applied or its customers or other business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals. All information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure. Applied has experienced, and expects to continue to be subject to, cybersecurity threats and incidents ranging from employee error or misuse to individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to these information systems, to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, none of which have been material to the Company to date. Applied devotes significant resources to network security, data encryption and other measures to protect its systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse. However, depending on their nature and scope, cybersecurity incidents could result in business disruption; the misappropriation of intellectual property, and corruption or loss of confidential information and critical data (Applied’s and that of third parties); reputational damage; litigation with third parties; diminution in the value of Applied’s investment in research, development and engineering; data privacy issues; and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. Compliance with, and changes to, laws and regulations concerning privacy and information security could result in significant expense, and any failure to comply could result in proceedings against Applied by regulatory authorities or other third parties.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings.
Applied is in the process of implementing new enterprise resource planning and related information systems in order to better manage its business operations, align its global organizations and enable future growth. This implementation requires the commitment of significant personnel and financial resources, and entails risks to Applied’s business operations. If Applied does not successfully implement new enterprise resource planning and related information systems, or if there are delays or difficulties in implementing these systems, Applied may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or cost efficiencies, and may experience interruptions in service and operational difficulties, such as its ability to track orders, timely manufacture and ship products, project inventory requirements, effectively manage its supply chain and allocate human resources, aggregate financial data and report operating results, and otherwise effectively manage its business, all of which could result in quality issues, reputational harm, lost market and revenue opportunities, and otherwise adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
Applied may incur impairment charges to goodwill or long-lived assets.
Applied has a significant amount of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets related to acquisitions. Goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The review compares the fair value for each of Applied’s reporting units to its associated carrying value, including goodwill. Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include adverse industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, declines in the market price of Applied common stock, changes in Applied’s strategies or product portfolio, and restructuring activities. Applied’s valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and projections of future operating performance. Applied may be required to record future charges to earnings during the period in which an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets is determined to exist.
Consistent with the international nature of its business, Applied conducts certain manufacturing, supply chain, and other operations in Asia, bringing these activities closer to customers and reducing operating costs. In certain foreign jurisdictions, conditional reduced income tax rates have been granted to Applied. To obtain the benefit of these tax incentives, Applied must meet requirements relating to various activities. Applied’s ability to realize benefits from these incentives could be materially affected if, among other things, applicable requirements are not met or Applied incurs net losses in these jurisdictions.
Applied is subject to risks associated with environmental and safety regulations.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to the global regulatory environment.
As a public company with global operations, Applied is subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, intellectual property, tax, trade, antitrust, employment, immigration and travel regulations, privacy, and anti-corruption. Changing, inconsistent or conflicting laws, rules and regulations, and ambiguities in their interpretation and application create uncertainty and challenges, and compliance with laws, rules and regulations may be onerous and expensive, divert management time and attention from revenue-generating activities, and otherwise adversely impact Applied’s business operations. Violations of law, rules and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions, restrictions on Applied’s business, and damage to its reputation, and could have an adverse impact on its business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 
