Overview
Fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contains 52 weeks, and the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contained 26 weeks.
Investment in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment and services continued to be the main driver of revenue during the first six months of fiscal 2019. 
Semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment customers’ investments in new capacity and technology transitions decreased compared to the same period in the prior year. Applied continued to see growth in demand for services and continued demand for spares from customers as compared to the same period in the prior year.
While Applied anticipates major technology trends to drive long-term growth in the semiconductor industry, the softening in demand that began during the second half of 2018 is expected to continue through 2019, led primarily by lower spending from memory customers. Foundry and logic spending is expected to increase year-on-year; however, customers are prioritizing spending on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied’s product portfolio. Applied expects lower spending for display manufacturing equipment in fiscal 2019, although long-term demand drivers remain in place. Applied anticipates its global services business to continue to grow in fiscal 2019.
The three and six months ended April 29, 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of new U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.07 and $1.02, respectively.
Results of Operations
Net Sales
For the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales decreased primarily due to decreased customer investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment, partially offset by an increase in services revenue. The Semiconductor Systems segment continued to represent the largest contributor of total net sales.
The changes in net sales in all regions in the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment spending and customer and product mix. The increase in net sales to customers in Taiwan, Japan and United States for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year was primarily due to increased investments in semiconductor manufacturing equipment. The decrease in net sales to customers in Korea, China and Southeast Asia for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected a decrease in investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment.
Gross Margin
Gross margin in the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the decrease in net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix. Gross margin during the three months ended April 28, 2019 and April 29, 2018 included $22 million and $21 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. Gross margin during the six months ended April 28, 2019 and April 29, 2018 included $44 million and $43 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. 
Research, Development and Engineering
Marketing and Selling
Marketing and selling expenses increased slightly in the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in fiscal 2018 primarily due to additional headcount, partially offset by lower variable compensation expenses. Marketing and selling expenses during the three months ended April 28, 2019 and April 29, 2018 included $7 million and $8 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. Marketing and selling expenses during the six months ended April 28, 2019 and April 29, 2018 included $15 million and $16 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
General and Administrative
Interest Expense and Interest and Other Income (Loss), net
Interest expenses incurred were primarily associated with issued senior unsecured notes. Interest expense in the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 increased slightly compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to higher interest expense related to accounts receivable sold during the three and six months ended April 28, 2019.
The Tax Act also includes provisions that impact Applied starting in fiscal 2019, including a provision designed to tax global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”). On September 13, 2018, the U.S. government issued proposed regulations that, if finalized, would significantly affect how the Tax Act is interpreted related to a tax benefit of $96 million realized by Applied in the first half of fiscal 2019. Proposed regulations are not authoritative and may change in the regulatory review process. This tax benefit may reverse if the regulations are finalized as proposed. An accounting policy choice is allowed to treat GILTI temporary differences in taxable income either as a current-period expense when incurred (the “period cost method”) or factor such amounts into the measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”). Applied has chosen the period cost method.
Applied’s effective tax rates for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 12.3 percent and 12.8 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was lower than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $71 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 for adjustments to the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act. Excluding the tax expense of $71 million, the effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was higher than the rate in the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to changes in the geographical composition of income which includes jurisdictions with differing tax rates.
Applied’s effective tax rates for the first half of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 12.8 percent and 48.2 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal 2019 was lower than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $1.1 billion in the first half of fiscal 2018 for the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act. Excluding the tax expense of $1.1 billion, the effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal 2019 was higher than the rate in the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $81 million in the first half of fiscal 2019 related to changes in uncertain tax positions and the excess tax benefit from share-based compensation in the first half of fiscal 2019 being $45 million less than in the same period in the prior fiscal year. The effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal 2019 was also higher due to changes in the geographical composition of income which includes jurisdictions with differing tax rates.
The results for each reportable segment are discussed below.
Semiconductor Systems Segment
Applied Global Services Segment
The Applied Global Services segment provides integrated solutions to optimize equipment and fab performance and productivity, including spares, upgrades, services, certain remanufactured earlier generation equipment and factory automation software for semiconductor, display and solar products. Customer demand for products and services is fulfilled through a global distribution system with trained service engineers located in close proximity to customer sites.
Demand for Applied Global Services’ service solutions are driven by Applied’s large and growing installed base of manufacturing systems, and customers’ needs to shorten ramp times, improve device performance and yield, and optimize factory output and operating costs. Industry conditions that affect Applied Global Services’ sales of spares and services are primarily characterized by increases in semiconductor manufacturers’ wafer starts and continued strong utilization rates, growth of the installed base of equipment, growing service intensity of newer tools, and the Company’s ability to sell more comprehensive service agreements.
Net sales for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 increased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for services and legacy systems. Operating income for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year increased due to higher net sales, partially offset by higher expenses related to an increase in headcount. Operating margin for the three months ended April 28, 2019 decreased slightly compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in headcount to support revenue growth. In the three months ended April 28, 2019, two customers each accounted for more than 10 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
There was no region that accounted for at least 30 percent of total net sales for the Applied Global Services segment for any of the periods presented.
Display and Adjacent Markets Segment
The Display and Adjacent Markets segment encompasses products for manufacturing liquid crystal and OLED displays, and other display technologies for TVs, monitors, laptops, personal computers, electronic tablets, smart phones, and other consumer-oriented devices, equipment upgrades and flexible coating systems. The segment is focused on expanding its presence through technologically-differentiated equipment for manufacturing large-scale LCD TVs, OLEDs, low temperature polysilicon (LTPS), metal oxide, and touch panel sectors; and development of products that provide customers with improved performance and yields. Display industry growth depends primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs as well as larger and higher resolution displays for next generation mobile devices.
Net sales for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to lower customer investments in mobile and TV display manufacturing equipment. Operating income and operating margin for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year, reflecting lower net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix. In the three months ended April 28, 2019, three customers each accounted for at least 10 percent of this segment’s net sales, and together they accounted for approximately 84 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources
Operating Activities
Cash from operating activities for the six months ended April 28, 2019 was $1.6 billion, which reflects net income adjusted for the effect of non-cash charges and changes in working capital components. Non-cash charges included depreciation, amortization, share-based compensation and deferred income taxes. Cash provided by operating activities decreased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower cash collections and higher payments to suppliers, offset by a lower change in inventory during the six months ended April 28, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year. 
Applied has agreements with various financial institutions to sell accounts receivable and discount promissory notes from selected customers. Applied sells its accounts receivable without recourse. Applied, from time to time, also discounts letters of credit issued by customers through various financial institutions. The discounting of letters of credit depends on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to discount the letters of credit and the cost of such arrangements. Applied sold $1.1 billion and $766 million of accounts receivable during the six months ended April 28, 2019 and April 29, 2018, respectively. Applied did not discount promissory notes or utilize programs to discount letters of credit issued by customers during the six months ended April 28, 2019 or April 29, 2018.
Applied’s working capital was $6.5 billion as of April 28, 2019 and $6.7 billion as of October 28, 2018. 
Days sales outstanding for the three months ended April 28, 2019 was 58 days, an increase compared to 53 day sales outstanding for the same period in the prior year. Days sales outstanding varies due to the timing of shipments and payment terms, and the increase was primarily due to higher revenue and favorable collection performance for the same period in the prior year. 
Investing Activities
Applied used $195 million of cash in investing activities during the six months ended April 28, 2019. Capital expenditures totaled $251 million and were partially offset by the proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, net of purchases of investments of $79 million during the six months ended April 28, 2019.
Applied’s investment portfolio consists principally of investment grade money market mutual funds, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, municipal bonds, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well as equity securities. Applied regularly monitors the credit risk in its investment portfolio and takes appropriate measures, which may include the sale of certain securities, to manage such risks prudently in accordance with its investment policies. 
In March 2019 and December 2018, Applied’s Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.21 and $0.20 per share, respectively. The dividend declared in March 2019 is payable in June 2019. Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders.
Applied has credit facilities for unsecured borrowings in various currencies of up to $1.6 billion, of which $1.5 billion is comprised of a committed revolving credit agreement with a group of banks that is scheduled to expire in September 2021. This agreement provides for borrowings in United States dollars at interest rates keyed to one of the two rates selected by Applied for each advance and includes financial and other covenants with which Applied was in compliance as of April 28, 2019. Remaining credit facilities in the amount of approximately $72 million are with Japanese banks. Applied’s ability to borrow under these facilities is subject to bank approval at the time of the borrowing request, and any advances will be at rates indexed to the banks’ prime reference rate denominated in Japanese yen. No amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities as of both April 28, 2019 and October 28, 2018, and Applied has not utilized these credit facilities. 
In fiscal 2011, Applied established a short-term commercial paper program of up to $1.5 billion. As of April 28, 2019, Applied did not have any commercial paper outstanding but may issue commercial paper notes under this program from time to time in the future.
Applied also has agreements with various banks to facilitate subsidiary banking operations worldwide, including overdraft arrangements, issuance of bank guarantees, and letters of credit. As of April 28, 2019, Applied has provided parent guarantees to banks for approximately $149 million to cover these arrangements.
Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of factors such as those discussed above, Applied’s management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applied’s liquidity requirements for the next 12 months. For further details regarding Applied’s operating, investing and financing activities, see the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows in this report.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Revenue Recognition
Warranty Costs
Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized. Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product, current and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs. Applied’s warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period. As Applied’s customer engineers and process support engineers are highly trained and deployed globally, labor availability is a significant factor in determining labor costs. The quantity and availability of critical replacement parts is another significant factor in estimating warranty costs. Unforeseen component failures or exceptional component performance can also result in changes to warranty costs. If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applied’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified. Changes in circumstances, such as an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer’s ability to meet its financial obligation to Applied or its payment trends, may require Applied to further adjust its estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to Applied, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
Inventory Valuation
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Applied reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also annually reviews goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives for impairment. Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition. The value assigned to intangible assets is usually based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. 
To test goodwill for impairment, Applied first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, Applied then performs the two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. Under the two-step goodwill impairment test, Applied would in the first step compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference.
Applied determines the fair value of each reporting unit based on a weighting of an income and a market approach. Applied bases the fair value estimates on assumptions that it believes to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Under the income approach, Applied estimates the fair value based on discounted cash flow method.
The estimates used in the impairment testing are consistent with the discrete forecasts that Applied uses to manage its business, and considers any significant developments during the period. Under the discounted cash flow method, cash flows beyond the discrete forecasts are estimated using a terminal growth rate, which considers the long-term earnings growth rate specific to the reporting units. The estimated future cash flows are discounted to present value using each reporting unit’s weighted average cost of capital. The weighted average cost of capital measures a reporting unit’s cost of debt and equity financing weighted by the percentage of debt and equity in a reporting unit’s target capital structure. In addition, the weighted average cost of capital is derived using both known and estimated market metrics, and is adjusted to reflect both the timing and risks associated with the estimated cash flows. The tax rate used in the discounted cash flow method is the median tax rate of comparable companies and reflects Applied’s current international structure, which is consistent with the market participant perspective. Under the market approach, Applied uses the guideline company method which applies market multiples to forecasted revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Applied uses market multiples that are consistent with comparable publicly-traded companies and considers each reporting unit’s size, growth and profitability relative to its comparable companies. 
Non-GAAP Adjusted Financial Results
Management uses non-GAAP adjusted financial measures to evaluate the Company’s operating and financial performance and for planning purposes, and as performance measures in its executive compensation program. Applied believes these measures enhance an overall understanding of its performance and investors’ ability to review the Company’s business from the same perspective as the Company’s management and facilitate comparisons of this period’s results with prior periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that management does not believe are indicative of Applied’s ongoing operating performance. 
The non-GAAP adjusted financial measures presented below are adjusted to exclude the impact of certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including certain items related to mergers and acquisitions; restructuring charges and any associated adjustments; impairments of assets, or investments; gain or loss on sale of strategic investments; tax effect of share-based compensation; certain income tax items and other discrete adjustments. Additionally, non-GAAP results exclude estimated discrete income tax expense items associated with recent U.S. tax legislation. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are provided in the financial tables presented below. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, and may exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets.
1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table provides information as of April 28, 2019 with respect to the shares of common stock repurchased by Applied during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 pursuant to a publicly announced stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in February 2018, which authorized up to an aggregate of $6.0 billion in repurchases.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
