item1.txt
The information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (“Report”) should be read in conjunction with “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” “Risk Factors,” “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the "Form 10-K"). 
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
Revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services by following a five-step process, (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price, and (5) recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation, as further described below.
Identify the performance obligations in the contract. Product performance obligations include hardware and software licenses and service performance obligations include maintenance, software post-contract support, training, and professional services. Certain software licenses and related post-contract support are combined into a single performance obligation when the maintenance updates are critical to the continued functionality of the software. 
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Standalone selling prices are based on multiple factors including, but not limited to historical discounting trends for products and services, pricing practices in different geographies and through different sales channels, gross margin objectives, internal costs, competitor pricing strategies, and industry technology lifecycles.
Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation. Revenue for hardware and certain software licenses, are recognized at a point in time, which is generally upon shipment or delivery. Certain software licenses combined with post-contract support are recognized over time on a ratable basis over the term of the license. Revenue for maintenance and software post-contract support is recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term. Revenue from training and professional services is recognized over time as services are completed or ratably over the contractual period of generally one year or less.
Sales commissions earned by the Company’s sales force are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. These costs are deferred and then amortized over a period of benefit which is typically over the term of the customer contracts as initial commission rates and renewal rates are the same. Amortization expense is included in sales and marketing expenses in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
For available-for-sale debt securities that have unrealized losses, the Company assesses impairment by evaluating various factors, including whether (i) it has the intention to sell any of these investments and (ii) whether it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had 545 investments in unrealized loss positions. The gross unrealized losses related to these investments were primarily due to changes in market interest rates. The Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such available-for-sale debt securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017.
All of the Company's privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities are classified as Level 3 assets due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value. The Company estimates the fair value of its privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities on a recurring basis using an analysis of the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, including recent financing activities and the investee's capital structure. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, there were no significant activities related to privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stocks securities. 
Equity investments without readily determinable fair value are measured at fair value, when they are deemed to be impaired or when there is an adjustment from observable price changes. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, there were no impairment charges or adjustments resulting from observable price changes for equity investments without readily determinable fair value. 
The carrying amounts of the Company's accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their short maturities. As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the Company's short-term and long-term debt in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was $2,178.8 million and $2,252.9 million, respectively, based on observable market inputs (Level 2). The carrying value of the promissory note issued to the Company in connection with the previously completed sale of Junos Pulse (the “Pulse Note”) of $64.6 million and $61.2 million approximates its fair value as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The Pulse Note is classified as a Level 3 asset due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value. 
The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the Company's planned cost of revenues and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. These derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges. Execution of cash flow hedge derivatives typically occurs every month with maturities of eighteen months or less. As of June 30, 2018, an estimated $3.2 million of existing net loss within accumulated other comprehensive loss is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
During 2017, the Company initiated a restructuring plan (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”) to realign its workforce and increase operational efficiencies. The 2017 Restructuring Plan consisted of severance and contract termination costs that were recorded to restructuring (benefits) charges in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per share of common stock on January 30, 2018 and May 2, 2018, which was paid on March 22, 2018 and June 22, 2018, respectively, to stockholders of record on March 1, 2018 and June 1, 2018, respectively, in the aggregate amount of $124.9 million. Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of Juniper Networks or an authorized committee thereof. See Note 14, Subsequent Events, for discussion of the Company's dividend declaration subsequent to June 30, 2018. 
In January 2018, the Board approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, including $750.0 million to be used pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase program ("2018 Stock Repurchase Program"). The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program replaces the previous authorization approved by the Board in 2014 ("2014 Stock Repurchase Program"). 
As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, in February 2018, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase program (the "ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase $750.0 million of the Company's common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received an initial 23.3 million shares of the Company's common stock for an aggregate price of $600.0 million, based on the market value of the Company's common stock on the date of the transaction. The initial shares received by the Company were retired, accounted for as a reduction to stockholders' equity in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, and treated as a repurchase of common stock for purposes of calculating earnings per share. The forward contract for the remaining $150.0 million is considered indexed to the Company's common stock and meets all of the applicable criteria for equity classification.


item2.txt
Juniper designs, develops, and sells products and services for high-performance networks to enable customers to build scalable, reliable, secure and cost-effective networks for their businesses, while achieving agility, efficiency and value through automation. 
We are focused on and continue to see significant opportunities from the implementation of cloud architectures, such as large public and private data centers, as well as distributed cloud infrastructure, which resides in multiple, distributed data centers in order to place applications or services closer to end users, such as enabling security and "network-as-a-service."
In routing, we believe that certain large Cloud customers are transitioning their wide area networks from a scale-up to a scale-out architecture as they continue to add capacity. This has resulted in, and we expect this may continue to result in, a transition of these customers from purchasing our MX product family to our PTX product family. These architectural shifts have led to a near-term slowdown in our net revenues as in some cases there is a pause before the new architecture ramps.
In switching, we see that certain large Cloud customers who can rapidly scale based on increased demand, are in the process of adopting 100-Gigabit connections, or 100G, resulting in certain large deployment delays at our largest Cloud customers as they prepare for this adoption. 


item4.txt



part2.txt
We expect our product and service gross margins to vary, both in the near-term and in the long-term, and the gross margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, some of which have occurred and may occur in the future, including customer, vertical, product and geographic mix shifts, an increase or decrease in our software sales or services we provide, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, changes in the actions of our competitors or their pricing strategies, which may be difficult to predict and respond to, modifications to our pricing strategy in order to gain footprint in certain markets or with certain customers, currency fluctuations that impact our costs or the cost of our products and services to our customers, increases in material, labor, logistics, warranty costs, or inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, issues with manufacturing or component availability, quality or efficiencies, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inaccurately forecasting product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products and enhancements or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. For example, in fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components. In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix. In fiscal year 2015, our margins increased compared to fiscal year 2014, as a result of higher restructuring and other charges recorded in 2014 but not in 2015, in connection with the restructuring plan we initiated in the first quarter of 2014. Failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.
Further, we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. We expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all. 
A substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure IP infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of IP services. As a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on IP infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. During the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the software and equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or 
The introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period. As a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters. Consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of certain software products, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. Also, it is 
If we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products, product enhancements and business strategies that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available or strategies are not executed in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer.
The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, continuous pricing pressures and a constantly evolving industry. We may not be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. For example, the move from traditional wide area network, or WAN, infrastructures towards software-defined WAN, or SD-WAN, has been receiving considerable attention. In our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of SD-WAN, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements. If we fail to anticipate market requirements or opportunities or fail to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet those requirements or opportunities in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and services, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if we invest time, energy and resources in developing products for a market that doesn't develop, it could likewise significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products, enhancements or business strategies, there can be no assurance that new products, enhancements or business strategies will achieve widespread market acceptance.
In recent years, we have announced a number of new products and enhancements to our hardware and software products across routing, switching and security. The success of our new products depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, prompt resolution of any defects or bugs in these products, our ability to support these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors and market acceptance of these products.
We depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which includes failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products. Such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including the possibility of import tariffs or regional conflicts. For example, the United States and Chinese governments have each recently announced import tariffs, and the United States has announced additional proposed import tariffs, on certain products originating from the other country. These tariffs, depending upon their ultimate scope, duration and how they are implemented, could negatively impact our business by increasing our costs and by making our products less cost competitive. We may not be able to pass such increased costs on to our customers. In addition, increased costs of production or delays in production caused by any relocation of contract manufacturing facilities could impact the global competitiveness of our products. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. In the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. If we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as Ericsson, IBM, Dimension Data and NEC Corporation. The majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors’ products, and some of which sell their own competing products. Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. The loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. For example, in 2016, Nokia Corporation merged with Alcatel-Lucent, a competitor of ours, and in 2015 Cisco announced a partnership with Ericsson, which is one of our existing partners. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer.


