item1.txt
The information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (“Report”) should be read in conjunction with “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” “Risk Factors,” “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the "Form 10-K"). 
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
Revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services by following a five-step process, (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price, and (5) recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation, as further described below.
Identify the performance obligations in the contract. Product performance obligations include hardware and software licenses and service performance obligations include maintenance, software post-contract support, training, and professional services. Certain software licenses and related post-contract support are combined into a single performance obligation when the maintenance updates are critical to the continued functionality of the software. 
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Standalone selling prices are based on multiple factors including, but not limited to historical discounting trends for products and 
Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation. Revenue for hardware and certain software licenses, are recognized at a point in time, which is generally upon shipment or delivery. Certain software licenses combined with post-contract support are recognized over time on a ratable basis over the term of the license. Revenue for maintenance and software post-contract support is recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term. Revenue from training and professional services is recognized over time as services are completed or ratably over the contractual period of generally one year or less.
Sales commissions earned by the Company’s sales force are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. These costs are deferred and then amortized over a period of benefit which is typically over the term of the customer contracts as initial commission rates and renewal rates are the same. Amortization expense is included in sales and marketing expenses in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Equity investments without readily determinable fair value are measured at fair value, when they are deemed to be impaired or when there is an adjustment from observable price changes. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, there was no impairment charges or adjustments resulting from observable price changes for equity investments without readily determinable fair value. 
The carrying amounts of the Company's accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their short maturities. As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the Company's short-term and long-term debt in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was $2,200.0 million and $2,252.9 million, respectively, based on observable market inputs (Level 2). The carrying value of the promissory note issued to the Company in connection with the previously completed sale of Junos Pulse (the “Pulse Note”), of $61.2 million approximates its fair value as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The Pulse Note is classified as a Level 3 asset due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value. 
The Company recognized an unrealized gain of $13.4 million and $7.0 million in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the effective portion of its derivative instruments for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively. The Company reclassified a gain of $5.6 million out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to cost of revenues and operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three months ended March 31, 2018. The amount reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to cost of revenues and operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three months ended March 31, 2017 was not material.
During 2017, the Company initiated a restructuring plan (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”) to realign its workforce and increase operational efficiencies. The 2017 Restructuring Plan consisted of severance and contract termination costs that were recorded to restructuring (benefits) charges in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
The Company provides certain customers with access to extended financing arrangements that allow for longer payment terms than those typically provided by the Company by factoring accounts receivable to third-party financing providers (“financing providers”). The program does not and is not intended to affect the timing of the Company's revenue recognition. Under the financing arrangements, proceeds from the financing providers are due to the Company within 1 to 90 days from the sale of the receivable. In these transactions with the financing providers, the Company surrenders control over the transferred assets. 
Pursuant to the financing arrangements for the sale of receivables, the Company sold net receivables of $35.8 million and $25.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively. The Company received cash proceeds from financing providers of $33.0 million and $23.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively. As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the amounts owed by the financing providers were $16.5 million and $13.7 million, respectively, which were recorded in accounts receivable in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In January 2018, the Board approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, including $750.0 million to be used pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase program ("2018 Stock Repurchase Program"). The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program replaces the previous authorization approved by the Board in 2014 ("2014 Stock Repurchase Program"). 
for as a reduction to stockholders' equity in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, and treated as a repurchase of common stock for purposes of calculating earnings per share. The forward contract for the remaining $150.0 million is considered indexed to the Company's common stock and met all of the applicable criteria for equity classification.
Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The Company's 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time.


item2.txt
Further, our intent is to lead in the area of software solutions that simplify the operation of networks, and to allow our customers across our key verticals to deliver further value over their networks. We anticipate that our increased focus on software business models will result in an increase in software revenue as a percentage of total revenue over time. 
We are focused on and continue to see significant opportunities from the implementation of cloud architectures, such as large public and private data centers, as well as distributed cloud infrastructure which resides in multiple, distributed data centers in order to place applications or services closer to end users, such as enabling security and "network-as-a-service."
In routing, we believe that certain large Cloud customers are transitioning their wide area networks from scale-up to a scale-out architecture as they continue to add capacity. This has resulted in, and we expect this may continue to result in, a transition of these customers from purchasing our MX product family to our PTX product family. These architectural shifts have led to a near-term slowdown in our net revenues as in some cases there is a pause before the new architecture ramps.
Despite these ongoing deployment delays and architectural shifts, we remain confident in our competitive position and strong relationships with these strategic customers. Our overall strategy with our Cloud customers has not changed and we continue to execute against our innovation roadmap, which includes our plan to continue to grow our relevance and our business in the Cloud vertical. 


item4.txt



part2.txt
We expect our product and service gross margins to vary, both in the near-term and in the long-term, and the gross margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, some of which have occurred and may occur in the future, including customer, vertical, product and geographic mix shifts, an increase or decrease in our software sales or services we provide, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, changes in the actions of our competitors or their pricing strategies, which may be difficult to predict and respond to, modifications to our pricing strategy in order to gain footprint in certain markets or with certain customers, currency fluctuations that impact our costs or the cost of our products and services to our customers, increases in material, labor, logistics, warranty costs, or inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, issues with manufacturing or component quality or efficiencies, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inaccurately forecasting product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products and enhancements or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. For example, in fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components. In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix. In fiscal year 2015, our margins increased compared to fiscal year 2014, as a result of higher restructuring and other charges recorded in 2014 but not in 2015, in connection with the restructuring plan we initiated in the first quarter of 2014. Failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.
Further, we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. We expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all. 
Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve. The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation (following its acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent), Arista, HPE, and Huawei. In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, as well as companies 
The introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period. As a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters. Consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of certain software products, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. Also, it is 
Additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and technology roadmap and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. As a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter.
If we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products, product enhancements and business strategies that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available or strategies are not executed in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer.
The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, continuous pricing pressures and a constantly evolving industry. We may not be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. For example, the move from traditional wide area network, or WAN, infrastructures towards software-defined WAN, or SD-WAN, has been receiving considerable attention. In our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of SD-WAN, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements. If we fail to anticipate market requirements or opportunities or fail to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet those requirements or opportunities in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and services, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if we invest time, energy and resources in developing products for a market that doesn't develop, it could likewise significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products, enhancements or business strategies, there can be no assurance that new products, enhancements or business strategies will achieve widespread market acceptance.
In recent years, we have announced a number of new products and enhancements to our hardware and software products across routing, switching and security. The success of our new products depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, prompt resolution of any defects or bugs in these products, our ability to support these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors and market acceptance of these products.
We depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which includes failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products. Such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including the possibility of import tariffs or regional conflicts. For example, the United States and Chinese governments have recently had discussions regarding potential import tariffs by both countries. These tariffs, depending upon their ultimate scope and how they are implemented, could negatively impact our business by increasing our costs and by making our products less cost competitive in China. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.


