item1.txt
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
The adoption of the standard had no impact on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows or debt-covenant compliance under its current agreements. See Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, for additional disclosures required upon adopting the standard.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized on the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made prior to lease commencement and excludes lease incentives. Variable lease payments not dependent on an index or a rate, are expensed as incurred and are not included within the ROU asset and lease liability calculation. Variable lease payments primarily include reimbursements of costs incurred by lessors for common area maintenance and utilities. The Company's lease terms are the noncancelable period, including any rent-free periods provided by the lessor, and include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that it will exercise that option. At lease inception, and in subsequent periods as necessary, the Company estimates the lease term based on its assessment of extension and termination options that are reasonably certain to be exercised. Lease costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company does not separate non-lease components from lease components for all underlying classes of assets. In addition, the Company does not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases, which have a lease term of twelve months or less and do not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the Company is reasonably certain to exercise. Lease cost for short-term leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
On April 1, 2019, the Company acquired 100% ownership of Mist Systems, Inc. (“Mist”) for $359.2 million. The purchase consideration consisted of cash of $354.5 million and $4.7 million in share-based awards attributable to services prior to the acquisition. The acquisition of Mist, a company that provides cloud-managed wireless networks powered by artificial intelligence, is expected to enhance Juniper's enterprise networking portfolio by combining Mist’s next-generation Wireless LAN platform with Juniper's wired LAN, SD-WAN, and security solutions to deliver integrated end-to-end user and IT experiences. 
Acquisition-related costs were not material during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and were expensed in the period incurred within general and administrative expense in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company's Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of this business combination from the date of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations for this acquisition have not been presented, as the financial impact to the Company's consolidated results of operations is not material. The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocation that are subject to change relate to certain legal and income tax matters.
As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of restricted cash and investments was $92.0 million, of which $66.5 million was included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $25.5 million was included in other long-term assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Equity investments without readily determinable fair value are measured at fair value, when they are deemed to be impaired or when there is an adjustment from observable price changes. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, there were no material impairment charges or adjustments resulting from observable price changes for equity investments without readily determinable fair value. 
The carrying amounts of the Company's accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their short maturities. As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of the Company's total outstanding debt in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was $1,807.3 million and $2,158.7 million, respectively, based on observable market inputs (Level 2). The carrying value of the promissory note issued to the Company in connection with the previously completed sale of Junos Pulse, along with the accumulated interest paid in kind, of $73.7 million and $69.0 million approximates its fair value as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. Notes receivable are generally classified as Level 3 asset due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value. The carrying value of a contract manufacturer deposit of $36.9 million, reported within other long-term assets, in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets approximates its fair value as of September 30, 2019. See Note 7, Other Financial Information, for further information on the contract manufacturer deposit. 
The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the remeasurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. These foreign exchange forward contracts typically have maturities of approximately one to four months. The outstanding non-designated derivative instruments are carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives recorded in other expense, net within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations were not material during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
Deferred commissions were $20.4 million as of September 30, 2019. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, amortization expense for the deferred commissions was $27.9 million and $94.0 million, respectively. There were no impairment charges recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019.
During the first quarter of 2019, the Company initiated a restructuring plan (the "2019 Restructuring Plan") designed to realign its workforce with the Company's sales strategy, improve productivity, and enhance cost efficiencies. During the second quarter of 2019, the Company amended the 2019 Restructuring Plan and undertook certain further actions that resulted in additional severance, additional facility consolidation, and contract termination costs.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, the Company recorded $0.3 million and $0.8 million for changes in previous estimates associated with severance and contract termination costs, respectively. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company recorded $21.8 million of severance costs related to workforce reductions, $2.1 million of facility consolidations, and $11.7 million of contract termination costs, respectively, to restructuring charges in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
In the event of a change of control repurchase event, the holders of the Notes may require the Company to repurchase for cash all or part of the Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.
Interest on the Notes is payable in cash semiannually. The effective interest rates for the Notes include the interest on the Notes, accretion of the discount, and amortization of issuance costs. The indentures that govern the Notes also contain various covenants, including limitations on the Company's ability to incur liens or enter into sale-leaseback transactions over certain dollar thresholds.


item2.txt
Juniper designs, develops, and sells products and services for high-performance networks to enable customers to build scalable, reliable, secure and cost-effective networks for their businesses, while achieving agility and improved operating efficiency through automation. 
Further, our intent is to expand our software business by introducing new software solutions to our product portfolio that simplify the operation of networks, and allow our customers across our key verticals flexibility in consumption and deployment. We believe our software and related services revenues as a percentage of total revenues will increase over time as we introduce new software solutions designed to better monetize the value of software functionality in our offerings. 
We believe the network needs for our customers in our Cloud, Service Provider, and Enterprise verticals are converging, as these customers recognize the need for high performance networks and are adopting cloud architectures for their infrastructure and service delivery, such as large public and private data centers and service provider edge data centers, for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency. 


item4.txt



part2.txt
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve. The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation, Arista Networks, Inc., and Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, Inc., as well as companies such as Check Point Software Technologies, Ltd., and Fortinet, Inc. Further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address.
The introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period. As a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters. Consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of certain software products, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. Also, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase such software or services revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from those software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts must be recognized over the applicable period.
A substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure IP infrastructure and customers that depend on the continued growth of IP services to deploy our products in their networks and IP infrastructures. As a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand (all of which, have in the past, particularly affected telecommunications service providers), spending on IP infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect 
on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. During the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the software and equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure IP infrastructure. For example, in recent years, our switching and routing results were adversely affected by spending delays from our largest Cloud customers, who we believe are in the process of implementing a networking architectural shift. The duration of the delay is difficult to predict, in part because each Cloud customer will migrate their network architecture based on their own constraints. Such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, continuous pricing pressures and a constantly evolving industry. We may not be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. For example, the move from traditional wide area network, or WAN, infrastructures towards software-defined WAN, or SD-WAN, has been receiving considerable attention. In our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of SD-WAN, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements. If we fail to anticipate market requirements or opportunities or fail to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet those requirements or opportunities in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and services, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if we invest time, energy and resources in developing products for a market that does not develop, it could likewise significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products, enhancements or business strategies, there can be no assurance that new products, enhancements or business strategies will achieve widespread market acceptance.
We depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which could include failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products. Such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Moreover, a significant portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including import tariffs, disruptions to our supply chain, or regional conflicts. For example, the United States recently imposed a tariff on networking products imported from China; this includes certain products that we import into and sell within the United States. If we cannot fully mitigate the impact of the tariffs, the increased cost could translate into higher prices for our customers, reduced customer demand or increased cost of goods sold. Similarly, many of the products that we source from China are transported by air cargo from Hong Kong, which has experienced recent political demonstrations that have resulted in cancellations or delays in flights in and out of Hong Kong. If these demonstrations and their impact on air shipments continue, we could experience delays in product deliveries or be required to change our shipping practices. In addition, increased costs of production or delays in production caused by any relocation of contract manufacturing facilities or delays in product deliveries could impact the global competitiveness of our products. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
that may be beyond our control or may seek to impose significant price increases. Any disruptions to our supply chain or significant increase in components cost could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity or otherwise adversely affect our business and result in increased costs. Such a disruption could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices, the imposition of regulations, quotas or embargoes on components, labor stoppages, transportation failures affecting the supply chain and shipment of materials and finished goods, third-party interference in the integrity of the products sourced through the supply chain, the unavailability of raw materials, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, civil unrest, military conflicts, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism and disruptions in utility and other services.
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our employees, contractors, customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. In addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. The growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including Juniper, have been and are increasingly subject to attacks and attempted intrusions, including recent attempts, on their and their vendors' networks and systems by a wide range of actors, including but not limited to nation states, criminal enterprises, and terrorist organizations, on an ongoing and regular basis. Despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure has experienced breaches and may be subject or vulnerable in the future to breaches or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breaches due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions. If any breach or attack compromises our networks or those of our vendors', creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities of our products, the information stored on our networks or those of our customers, suppliers or business partners could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, lost, destroyed or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, including regulatory entities, and suffer reputational and financial harm. In addition, hardware, components and software (including operating system software) and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs", vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks, or expose us or our products to cyber attacks, or be exploited to gain unauthorized access to our or our customers’ systems or information we maintain. This can be true even for 
“legacy” products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time. Furthermore, third parties may attempt to exfiltrate data through the introduction into the Information and Communications Technology supply chain of malicious products and components that are designed to defeat or circumvent encryption and other cybersecurity measures, and if successful, such actions could diminish customer trust in our products, harm our business reputation, and adversely affect our business and financial condition. 
As a result of any actual or perceived breach of network security that occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products and our overall reputation could be harmed. As a large, well known provider of networking products, cyber attackers regularly and specifically target our products or attempt to imitate us or our products in order to compromise a network. Because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused. This could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions, which could have an adverse impact on our financial results. The economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure, because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the attacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint. Additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches. 


