item1.txt
The information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (“Report”) should be read in conjunction with “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” “Risk Factors,” “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (the "Form 10-K"). 
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception. The Company evaluates classification of leases at commencement and, as necessary, at modification. As of March 31, 2019, the Company did not have any finance leases. Operating leases are included in operating lease ROU assets, other accrued liabilities, and operating lease liabilities on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. ROU assets represent the Company's right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. 
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made prior to lease commencement and excludes lease incentives. Variable lease payments not dependent on an index or a rate, are expensed as incurred and are not included within the ROU asset and lease liability calculation. Variable lease payments primarily include reimbursements of costs incurred by lessors for common area maintenance and utilities. The Company's lease terms are the noncancelable period including any rent-free periods provided by the lessor and include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that it will exercise that option. At lease inception, and in subsequent periods as necessary, the Company estimates the lease term based on its assessment of extension and termination options that are reasonably certain to be exercised. Lease costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company does not separate non-lease components from lease components for all underlying classes of assets. In addition, the Company does not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases, which have a lease term of twelve months or less and do not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the Company is reasonably certain to exercise. Lease cost for short-term leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the Company's planned cost of revenues and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. These derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges. Execution of cash flow hedge derivatives typically occurs every month with maturities of eighteen months or less. As of March 31, 2019, an estimated $2.8 million of unrealized net gain within accumulated other comprehensive loss is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
The Company recognized an unrealized gain of $3.4 million and $13.4 million in accumulated other comprehensive income for the effective portion of its derivative instruments for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively. The Company reclassified a loss of $1.0 million and a gain of $5.6 million out of accumulated other comprehensive income to cost of revenues and operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the remeasurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. These foreign exchange forward contracts typically have maturities of approximately one to three months. The outstanding non-designated derivative instruments are carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives recorded in other expense, net within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations were not material during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018.
The Company has a non-interest bearing deposit balance of $47.6 million, net of an unamortized discount balance of $2.3 million, to a contract manufacturer per the terms of the agreement. The discount is calculated based on an imputed interest rate of 4.8% at March 31, 2019. The imputed interest will be amortized over the term of the deposit to interest income along with a corresponding charge to cost of revenues. The deposit is due on demand in the second quarter of 2020 and has been classified as other long-term assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Deferred commissions were $26.1 million as of March 31, 2019. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, amortization expense for the deferred commissions was $34.9 million. There were no impairment charges recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
During the first quarter of 2019, the Company initiated a restructuring plan (the "2019 Restructuring Plan") designed to realign its workforce with the Company's sales strategy, improve productivity, and enhance cost efficiencies. The 2019 Restructuring Plan consists of workforce reductions and facility closures. 
In connection with the 2019 Restructuring Plan, the Company recorded $15.1 million of severance costs and $0.2 million of facility consolidations, respectively, to restructuring charges in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three months ended March 31, 2019
In January 2018, the Board approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program ("2018 Stock Repurchase Program"). As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, in February 2018, the Company entered into an ASR to repurchase $750.0 million of its common stock. The Company made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR to repurchase its common stock. The aggregate number of shares ultimately repurchased of 29.3 million shares of common stock was determined based on a volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share.
Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The Company's 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time.
On November 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee amended and restated the ESPP to provide that the offering period that began on February 1, 2018 would be for 24 months with four 6-month purchase periods. A new 24-month offering period will commence every six months thereafter. The purchase price for the Company’s common stock under the ESPP is 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the shares at (1) the beginning of the applicable offering period or (2) the end of each 6-month purchase period during such offering period. The ESPP will continue in effect until February 25, 2028, unless terminated earlier under the provisions of the ESPP. 
The Company operates in one reportable segment. The Company's chief executive officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance, accompanied by disaggregated information about net revenues by product and service, customer vertical, and geographic region as presented below.


item2.txt
Further, our intent is to expand our software business by introducing new software solutions to our product portfolio that simplify the operation of networks, and allow our customers across our key verticals flexibility in consumption and deployment. We believe our software revenues as a percentage of total revenues will increase over time as we introduce new software product offerings and business models designed to better monetize the value of our software offerings. 
We believe the network needs for our customers in our Cloud, Service Provider, and Enterprise verticals are converging, as these customers recognize the need for high performance networks and are adopting cloud architectures for their infrastructure and service delivery, such as large public and private data centers and service provider edge data centers, for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency. 
In the first quarter of 2019, we continued to execute on our product and solutions strategy and announced new metro, edge and core innovations to accelerate service providers’ 5G transformation. Our Metro Fabric line expansion includes one and three rack unit ACX700 Universal Metro Routers. We announced a new edge MPC11E line card in the MX2000 Series 5G Universal Routing Platform, delivering an increase in line card and system capacity using our Penta Silicon chip. We also announced our new Triton Silicon enabling end-to-end secure connectivity at scale with 400 gigabit-Ethernet, or GbE, native Media Access Control Security that will be used in the PTX10008 and PTX10016 Universal Chassis. These new solutions will help service providers with their infrastructure transformation.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We expect our product and service gross margins to vary, both in the near-term and in the long-term, and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, some of which have occurred and may occur in the future, including customer, vertical, product and geographic mix shifts, an increase or decrease in our software sales or services we provide, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, changes in the actions of our competitors or their pricing strategies, which may be difficult to predict and respond to, modifications to our pricing strategy in order to gain footprint in certain markets or with certain customers, currency fluctuations that impact our costs or the cost of our products and services to our customers, increases in material, labor, logistics, warranty costs, or inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, issues with manufacturing or component availability, quality or efficiencies, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inaccurately forecasting product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products and enhancements or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix. In fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components. In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix. Failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve. The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation, Arista, HPE, and Huawei. In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, as well as companies such as Check Point, and Fortinet. Further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address.
The introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period. As a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters. Consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of certain software products, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. Also, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase such software or services revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from those software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts must be recognized over the applicable period.
A substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure IP infrastructure and customers that depend on the continued growth of IP services to deploy our products in their networks and IP infrastructures. As a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand (all of which, have in the past, particularly affected telecommunications service providers), spending on IP infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. During the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the software and equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly 
reduce or suspend their spending on secure IP infrastructure. For example, in recent years, our switching and routing results were adversely affected by spending delays from our largest Cloud customers, who we believe are in the process of implementing a networking architectural shift. The duration of the delay is difficult to predict, in part because each Cloud customer will migrate their network architecture based on their own constraints. Such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, continuous pricing pressures and a constantly evolving industry. We may not be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. For example, the move from traditional wide area network, or WAN, infrastructures towards software-defined WAN, or SD-WAN, has been receiving considerable attention. In our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of SD-WAN, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements. If we fail to anticipate market requirements or opportunities or fail to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet those requirements or opportunities in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and services, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if we invest time, energy and resources in developing products for a market that doesn't develop, it could likewise significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products, enhancements or business strategies, there can be no assurance that new products, enhancements or business strategies will achieve widespread market acceptance.
In recent years, we have announced a number of new products and enhancements to our hardware and software products across routing, switching and security. The success of our new products depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, prompt resolution of any defects or bugs in these products, our ability to support these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors and market acceptance of these products.
We depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which could include failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products. Such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Moreover, a significant portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including import tariffs or regional conflicts. For example, the United States recently imposed a tariff on networking products imported from China; this includes certain products that we import into and sell within the United States. If we cannot mitigate the impact of the tariffs, the increased cost could translate into higher prices for our customers, reduced customer demand or increased cost of goods sold. In addition, increased costs of production or delays in production caused by any relocation of contract manufacturing facilities could impact the global competitiveness of our products. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
The development of alternate sources for components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. Also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. In the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. If we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. In addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. The growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including Juniper, have been and are increasingly subject to the threat of intrusions on their networks and systems by a wide range of actors, including but not limited to nation states, criminal enterprises, and terrorist organizations, on an ongoing and regular basis. Despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure has experienced breaches and may be vulnerable in the future to breach or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breached due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions. If any breach or attack compromises our networks, creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities of our products, the information stored on our networks or those of our customers could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and suffer reputational and financial harm. In addition, hardware, components and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs", vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks or expose us or our products to cyber attacks. This can be true even for “legacy” products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time. Furthermore, third parties may attempt to exfiltrate data through the introduction into the Information and Communications Technology supply chain of malicious products and components that are designed to defeat or circumvent encryption and other cybersecurity measures, and if successful, such actions could diminish customer trust in our products, harm our business reputation, and adversely affect our business and financial condition. 


