The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers. Some of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.  
Includes $4.4 million and $5.9 million recorded in the EMS segment, $1.6 million and $4.6 million recorded to the DMS segment and $0.0 million and $0.9 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Except for asset write-off costs, all restructuring and related charges are cash costs.  
For the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, the amount represented proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving-period transfers.  
Sales of the Company’s products are concentrated among specific customers. During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 48% of its net revenue and 75 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue. Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.  
Item 1. Legal Proceedings  
The Company is one of the leading providers of worldwide manufacturing services and solutions. The Company provides comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets. The Company derives substantially all of its revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.  
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $2.9 million and $10.3 million, for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.  
The change in contract liabilities that existed at the beginning of the reporting period was primarily due to revenue recognized during the three months ended November 30, 2018.  
On September 15, 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align the Company’s global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness. This action includes headcount reductions across the Company’s selling, general and administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).  
Differences primarily relate to the timing of revenue recognition for over-time customers and to the recovery of fulfillment costs.  
Represents reclassifications of net (gains) losses realized and included in net income related to derivative instruments. During the three months ended November 30, 2017, $3.5 million was classified into net income as a reduction of income tax expense related to derivative instruments. The remaining amount for the three months ended November 30, 2017 was primarily classified as a component of cost of revenue.  Net revenue increased during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017. Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 10% due to (i) a 6% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and (ii) a 4% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business. EMS segment revenues increased 22% primarily due to (i) a 11% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business, (ii) a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (iii) a 4% increase in revenues for customers within our computing and storage business and (iv) a 4% increase in revenues for customers within our printing business. The increase is partially offset by (i) a 4% decrease in revenue for customers within our digital home business and (ii) a 2% decrease in revenues spread across various industries within the EMS segment.  
Research and development expenses remained consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017.  
During the three months ended August 31, 2018, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter and the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter. During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.  
In connection with the adoption of ASU 2014-09, days in inventory are calculated based on inventory and contract asset balances for the three months ended November 30, 2018. During the three months ended November 30, 2018, days in inventory increased from the prior sequential quarter to support expected sales levels in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. During the three months ended August 31, 2018 and May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to increased sales activity during the quarter.  
Interest income increased during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017, due to higher interest rates.  
Gross profit decreased as a percent of net revenue during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017, primarily due to higher costs in our capital equipment business and ramp costs associated with new business awards in our EMS segment.  Item 6. Exhibits  Item 1. Legal Proceedings  