The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers. Some of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.  
Amounts are net of tax, which are immaterial for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019. The amounts for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, include a reduction to income tax expense related to derivative instruments of $3.5 million and $7.0 million, respectively.  
Includes $0.3 million and $2.1 million recorded in the EMS segment and $0.5 million and $3.3 million recorded in the DMS segment for the three months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Includes $4.7 million and $8.0 million recorded in the EMS segment, $2.1 million and $7.9 million recorded to the DMS segment and $0.0 million and $0.9 million of non-allocated charges for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Except for asset write-off costs, all restructuring and related charges are cash costs.  
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $6.1 million for the three months ended February 28, 2018, and $2.9 million and $16.4 million for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.  
Sales of the Company’s products are concentrated among specific customers. During the six months ended February 28, 2019, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 46% of its net revenue and 78 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue. Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.  
The Company is one of the leading providers of worldwide manufacturing services and solutions. The Company provides comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets. The Company derives substantially all of its revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.  
On September 15, 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align the Company’s global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness. This action includes headcount reductions across the Company’s selling, general and administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).  
For the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019, the Company recognized $57.1 million and $52.6 million, respectively, of foreign currency losses in cost of revenue, which are offset by the gains from the forward foreign exchange contracts. During the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, the Company recognized $41.7 million and $35.5 million, respectively, of foreign currency losses in cost of revenue, which are offset by the gains from the forward foreign exchange contracts.  
Differences primarily relate to the timing of revenue recognition for over-time customers and to the recovery of fulfillment costs.  
Revenue recognized during the six months ended February 28, 2019 that was included in the contract liability balance as of September 1, 2018 was $267.0 million.  
Differences primarily relate to the timing of cost recognition for over-time customers and the recognition of fulfillment costs.  Net revenue increased during the three months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months ended February 28, 2018. Specifically, the DMS segment revenues decreased 7% due to (i) a 9% decrease in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of decreased end user product demand, which we expect to remain weak for the balance of the fiscal year and (ii) a 2% decrease in revenues spread across various industries within the DMS segment. The decrease was partially offset by a 4% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business. EMS segment revenues increased 33% primarily due to (i) a 13% increase in revenues for customers within our cloud business, (ii) an 8% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business, (iii) an 8% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business and (iv) a 6% increase in revenues for customers within our print and retail business. The increase is partially offset by a 2% decrease in revenues from customers within our capital equipment business, which we anticipate to recover in fiscal year 2020.  
See Note 14 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.  
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased during the six months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the six months ended February 28, 2018. The increase is primarily due to (i) an increase in salary and salary related expenses and other costs to support new business growth and development and (ii) $21.7 million in acquisition and integration charges related to our strategic collaboration with a healthcare company. The increase is partially offset by an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized during the six months ended February 28, 2018 as a result of the one-time modification of certain performance-based restricted stock unit awards and a one-time cash-settled award.  
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance. Revenue for all other contracts with customers will be recognized at a point in time, upon transfer of control of the product to the customer, which is effectively no change to our historical accounting. For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16 — “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Other expense increased for the three months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months ended February 28, 2018, primarily due to additional fees associated with the utilization of the foreign and North American asset-backed securitization programs. The increase was partially offset by $2.6 million of costs incurred during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 as a result of the early redemption of the 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018.  
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.   Item 1.  