 ITEM 1.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   



WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 





See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.  





Table of Contents 



WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 





See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.  





Table of Contents 



WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS





See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements. 



WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES





Continued on next page. 





See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements. 



WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 





See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.  





Table of Contents 



WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  









BASIS OF PRESENTATION    



Basis of Consolidation  







The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  



The results of operations for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December 31, 2019. Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal. Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons. Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter. Demand related to the new construction market is generally evenly distributed throughout the year, subject to weather and economic conditions, including their effect on the number of housing completions.   



Use of Estimates  



The preparation of condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the reporting period. Significant estimates include valuation reserves for accounts receivable, inventories and income taxes, reserves related to loss contingencies and the valuation of goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets and long-lived intangible assets. While we believe that these estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from such estimates.   



Recently Adopted Accounting Standards  



Leases  



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases. In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows. See Note 2.  



Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted  



Intangibles—Goodwill and Other  



In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. An entity also should consider income tax effects from any 



tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if any. This guidance is effective prospectively and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  





Table of Contents 





LEASES   



Adoption of New Lease Standard  



We adopted the New Lease Standard on January 1, 2019 using the additional transition method described in Note 1 to these condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements. Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2019 are presented under the New Lease Standard. Prior periods have not been restated. The New Lease Standard had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet due to the recognition of 



right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.  



Practical Expedients  



We elected the package of practical expedients which did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard. We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from non-lease components for all underlying asset classes. 



Operating and Finance Leases  



We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment, and finance leases primarily for vehicles. Operating leases are included in operating lease 



right-of-use assets, current portion of long-term obligations, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. Finance leases are not considered significant to our consolidated balance sheet or consolidated statement of income. Finance lease ROU assets at June 30, 2019 of $2,759 are included in property and equipment, net in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet. Finance lease liabilities at June 30, 2019 of $2,852 are included in current portion of long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet. 



ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.  



Operating lease ROU assets also include any lease 



pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives. Certain of our leases include variable payments, which are excluded from lease ROU assets and lease liabilities, and are expensed as incurred. Our leases have remaining lease terms of 



1-9 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to five years. The exercise of lease renewal options is at our sole discretion, and our lease ROU assets and liabilities reflect only the options we are reasonably certain that we will exercise. Certain real property lease agreements have lease and 



non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.  







Table of Contents 









At June 30, 2019, we had additional operating leases, primarily for real property, that had not yet commenced. Such leases had estimated future minimum rental commitments of approximately $17,000. These operating leases are expected to commence in 2019 with lease terms of 



5-11 years. These undiscounted amounts are not included in the table above. 



Prior to the adoption of the New Lease Standard, rental commitments on an undiscounted basis were approximately $219,300 at December 31, 2018 under 







Table of Contents 





REVENUES   



Disaggregation of Revenues   







EARNINGS PER SHARE    







Table of Contents 



Diluted earnings per share for our Common stock assumes the conversion of all of our Class B common stock into Common stock as of the beginning of the fiscal year; therefore, no allocation of earnings to Class B common stock is required. At June 30, 2019 and 2018, our outstanding Class B common stock was convertible into 2,577,858 





shares of our Common stock, respectively. 





OTHER COMPREHENSIVE 



INCOME 





Other comprehensive income 





on cash flow hedging instruments. 











PURCHASE OF OWNERSHIP INTEREST FROM JOINT VENTURE   



Effective May 31, 2019, we purchased an additional 20% ownership interest in Homans Associates II LLC (“Homans”) from Carrier Enterprise Northeast, LLC (“Carrier Enterprise II”) for cash consideration of $32,400, which increased our ownership in Homans to 100%. Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and subsequent to the purchase operates as a stand-alone subsidiary of the Company with 16 locations in the Northeastern U.S.  





Table of Contents 





INVESTMENT IN UNCONSOLIDATED ENTITY



On June 21, 2017, our first joint venture with Carrier, Carrier Enterprise, LLC, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, acquired a 34.9% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 30 locations in the Western U.S. We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, and Carrier has a 20% non-controlling interest. Carrier Enterprise I acquired its ownership interest in RSI for cash consideration of $63,600, of which we contributed $50,880 and Carrier contributed $12,720. Effective June 29, 2018, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an additional 1.4% ownership interest in RSI, which increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 36.3% for cash consideration of $3,760 that was paid on July 5, 2018, of which we contributed $3,008 and Carrier contributed $752. Effective April 22, 2019, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an additional 1.8% ownership interest in RSI for cash consideration of $4,940, of which we contributed $3,952 and Carrier contributed $988. This acquisition increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 38.1%.



Carrier Enterprise I is a party to a shareholders agreement (the “Shareholders Agreement”) with RSI and its shareholders. Pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement, RSI’s shareholders have the right to sell, and Carrier Enterprise I has the obligation to purchase, their respective shares of RSI for a purchase price determined based on either book value or a multiple of EBIT, the latter of which Carrier Enterprise I used to calculate the price paid for its investment in RSI. RSI’s shareholders may transfer their respective shares of RSI common stock only to members of the Sigler family or to Carrier Enterprise I, and, at any time from and after the date on which Carrier Enterprise I owns 85% or more of RSI’s outstanding common stock, it has the right, but not the obligation, to purchase from RSI’s shareholders the remaining outstanding shares of RSI common stock. Additionally, Carrier Enterprise I has the right to appoint two of RSI’s six board members. Given Carrier Enterprise I’s 38.1​​​​​​​% voting equity interest in RSI and its right to appoint two out of RSI’s six board members, this investment in RSI is accounted for under the equity method. 





ACQUISITION





The results of operations of this acquisition has been included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The pro forma effect of the acquisition was not deemed significant to the consolidated financial statements. 





DERIVATIVES



We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the earnings impact that foreign exchange rate fluctuations would otherwise have on certain monetary liabilities that are denominated in nonfunctional currencies. 



Cash Flow Hedging Instruments 



We enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges. The settlement of these derivatives results in reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings for the period in which the settlement of these instruments occurs. The maximum period for which we hedge our cash flow using these instruments is 12 months. Accordingly, at June 30, 2019, all of our open foreign currency forward contracts had maturities of one year or less. The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges at June 30, 2019 was $43,900, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through 







At June 30, 2019, we expected an estimated $545 



pre-tax loss to be reclassified into earnings to reflect the fixed prices obtained from foreign exchange hedging within the next 12 months.



Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments 



We have also entered into foreign currency forward and option contracts that are either not designated as hedges or did not qualify for hedge accounting. These derivative instruments were effective economic hedges for all of the periods presented. The fair value gains



and losses on these contracts are recognized in earnings as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses. The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments at June 30, 2019 was $15,160, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through 





We recognized (losses) gains of $(190) and $180 from foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated as hedging instruments in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We recognized losses of $303 and $191 from foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated as hedging instruments in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 







FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS











Equity securities – these investments are exchange-traded equity securities. Fair values for these investments are based on closing stock prices from active markets and are therefore classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.



Derivative financial instruments – these derivatives are foreign currency forward and option contracts. See Note 9. Fair value is based on observable market inputs, such as forward rates in active markets; therefore, we classify these derivatives within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.



There were no transfers in or out of Level 1 and Level 2 during the six months ended June 30, 2019. 





SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY



Common Stock Dividends 



We paid cash dividends of $1.60, $1.45, $3.20, and $2.70 per share of both Common stock and Class B common stock during the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 



Non-Vested Restricted Stock 



During the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2019, 3,608 shares of Common and Class B common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $555, and 6,593 shares of Common and Class B common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $983, respectively, were withheld as payment in lieu of cash to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of 



non-vested restricted stock. These shares were retired upon delivery. During the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2018, 



12,924 shares of Common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $



2,213 were withheld as payment in lieu of cash to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of 



non-vested restricted stock. These shares were retired upon delivery.



Exercise of Stock Options 



Cash received from Common stock issued as a result of stock options exercised during the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, was $1,526, $1,369, $2,243, and $3,981, respectively. 



During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, 1,610 shares of Common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $286 were withheld as payment in lieu of cash for stock option exercises. These shares were retired upon delivery. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, 6,651 shares of Common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $1,200 were withheld as payment in lieu of cash for stock option exercises. These shares were retired upon delivery. 



Employee Stock Purchase Plan 



During the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we received net proceeds of $423 and $414, respectively, for shares of Common stock issued under our employee stock purchase plan. During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we received net proceeds of $833 and $760, respectively, for shares of Common stock issued under our employee stock purchase plan.  





COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



Litigation, Claims and Assessments 



We are involved in litigation incidental to the operation of our business. We vigorously defend all matters in which we or our subsidiaries are named defendants and, for insurable losses, maintain significant levels of insurance to protect against adverse judgments, claims or assessments that may affect us. Although the adequacy of existing insurance coverage and the outcome of any legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, based on the current information available, we do not believe the ultimate liability associated with any known claims or litigation will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 



Self-Insurance 



Self-insurance reserves are maintained relative to company-wide casualty insurance and health benefit programs. The level of exposure from catastrophic events is limited by the purchase of stop-loss and aggregate liability reinsurance coverage. When estimating the self-insurance liabilities and related reserves, management considers a number of factors, which include historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors, and valuations provided by independent third-party actuaries. Management reviews its assumptions with its independent third-party actuaries to evaluate whether the self-insurance reserves are adequate. If actual claims or adverse development of loss reserves occur and exceed these estimates, additional reserves may be required. Reserves in the amounts of $3,383 and $2,311 at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, were established related to such programs and are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheets. 





RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS



Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 63% and 64% of all inventory purchases made during the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 62% and 63% of all inventory purchases made during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately $122,000 and $71,000, respectively, was payable to Carrier and its affiliates, net of receivables. Our joint ventures with Carrier also sell HVAC products to Carrier and its affiliates. Revenues in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 included approximately $23,000, $21,000, $44,000, and $37,000, respectively, of sales to Carrier and its affiliates. We believe these transactions are conducted on terms equivalent to an 



arm’s-length basis in the ordinary course of business.



A member of our Board of Directors is the Senior Chairman of Greenberg Traurig, P.A., which serves as our principal outside counsel for compliance and acquisition-related legal services. During the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, we paid this firm $0, $14, $0 and $18 for services performed, respectively, and no amount was payable at June 30, 2019. 







SUBSEQUENT EVENT



On August 1, 2019, Carrier Enterprise I acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of Peirce-Phelps, Inc. (“PPI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 19 locations in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware, for $85,000 less certain average revolving indebtedness. Consideration for the net purchase price consisted of $10,000 in cash and 372,543 shares of Common stock having a fair value of $58,638. Carrier contributed cash of $



17,000 to Carrier Enterprise I in connection with the acquisition of PPI.



 ITEM 1.  



LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   



Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 



10-Q under the caption “Litigation, Claims and Assessments,” which information is incorporated by reference in this Item 1 of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 





 ITEM 1A.  



RISK FACTORS   



Information about risk factors for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 does not differ materially from that set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of our Annual Report on Form 



10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 



