ITEM 1. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  



WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF INCOME  







See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.  





WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  







See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.  





WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  







See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.  





WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  







See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.  





WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  







 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION  



Basis of Consolidation  





The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  



The results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December 31, 2018. Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal. Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons. Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter. Demand related to the new construction market is generally evenly distributed throughout the year, subject to weather and economic conditions, including their effect on the number of housing completions.  



Use of Estimates  



The preparation of condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the reporting period. Significant estimates include valuation reserves for accounts receivable, inventories and income taxes, reserves related to self-insurance programs and the valuation of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. While we believe that these estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from such estimates.  



Recently Adopted Accounting Standards  



Revenue Recognition  



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued a standard on revenue recognition that provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers. The standard is principle-based and provides a five-step model to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized. In 2015 and 2016, the FASB issued several updates to this standard. The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Revenue Standard”) on January 1, 2018 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the modified retrospective approach, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated net income, balance sheet or cash flow. See Note 2.  



Financial Instruments  



In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance related to certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. Most prominent among the changes to the standard is the requirement that changes in the fair value of equity investments, with certain exceptions, be recognized through net income rather than other comprehensive income. This guidance must be applied using a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings and became effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. A cumulative-effect adjustment captured the previously held unrealized losses of $301 related to our equity investment carried at fair value. See Note 4.  





Stock Compensation  



In May 2017, the FASB issued guidance to clarify when to account for a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification. Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions. This guidance must be applied prospectively and became effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  



Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted  



Leases  



In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases. The guidance requires enhanced disclosures regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. This guidance will be applied using a modified retrospective approach and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 with early adoption permitted. We will adopt this guidance on January 1, 2019. While we are still evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements, including the option to elect certain practical expedients, we expect that, upon adoption, the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities recorded could be material to our consolidated balance sheets. However, we do not expect a material impact on our consolidated statements of income.  



Intangibles—Goodwill and Other  



In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. An entity also should consider income tax effects from any tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if any. This guidance is effective prospectively and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  



Derivatives and Hedging  



In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the accounting for hedging derivatives. This guidance is effective prospectively and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  





Adoption of New Revenue Standard  



We adopted the New Revenue Standard on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. The New Revenue Standard did not have an impact on the amount and timing of our revenue recognition; however, certain payments to customers were reclassified from expense to a reduction from revenues resulting in an immaterial impact to the individual financial statement line items of our condensed consolidated unaudited statement of income. Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.  



Revenue Recognition  



Revenue primarily consists of sales of air conditioning, heating and refrigeration equipment and related parts and supplies. We generate our revenue primarily from the sale of finished products to customers, therefore, the significant majority of our contracts are short-term in nature and have a single performance obligation to deliver products, in which our performance obligation is satisfied when control of the product is transferred to the customer. Some contracts contain a combination of product sales and services which are distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. Our performance obligations for services are satisfied when the services are rendered within the arranged service period. Total service revenue is not material and accounted for less than 1% of revenues for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.  



Revenue is recognized when control transfers to our customers via shipment of products or delivery of services. We measure revenue as the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services, net of any variable considerations (e.g., rights to return product, sales incentives, others) and any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. Revenue for shipping and handling charges is recognized when products are delivered to or picked up by the customer.  





Product Returns  



We estimate product returns based on historical experience and record them on a gross basis. Substantially all customer returns relate to products that are returned under warranty obligations underwritten by manufacturers. Accrued sales returns of $11,414 at March 31, 2018 were included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.  



Sales Incentives  



We estimate sales incentives expected to be paid over the term of the contract based on the most likely amount. Contract liabilities related to sales incentives are accounted for as a reduction in the transaction price and are generally paid on an annual basis. Accrued sales incentives of $6,260 and $13,001 as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, were included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheets.  



Disaggregation of Revenues  







 (1) As noted above, prior period amounts have not been adjusted under the modified retrospective method.  



Practical Expedients  



We generally expense sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period is one year or less. These costs are recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses. We do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected length of one year or less.  





 3. EARNINGS PER SHARE  







Diluted earnings per share for our Common stock assumes the conversion of all of our Class B common stock into Common stock as of the beginning of the fiscal year; therefore, no allocation of earnings to Class B common stock is required. At March 31, 2018 and 2017, our outstanding Class B common stock was convertible into 2,599,496 and 2,709,311 shares of our Common stock, respectively.  



Diluted earnings per share excluded 9,228 and 16,067 shares for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to stock options with an exercise price per share greater than the average market value, resulting in an anti-dilutive effect on diluted earnings per share.  





 4. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME  













We maintain an unsecured, syndicated revolving credit agreement, which we use to fund seasonal working capital needs and for other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, dividends (if and as declared by our Board of Directors), capital expenditures, stock repurchases and issuances of letters of credit. Effective February 5, 2018, we decreased the borrowing capacity under this credit agreement from $600,000 to $300,000. Included in the credit facility are a $90,000 swingline subfacility, a $10,000 letter of credit subfacility and a $75,000 multicurrency borrowing sublimit. The credit agreement matures on July 1, 2019.  





At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $91,000 and $21,800, respectively, were outstanding under the revolving credit agreement. The revolving credit agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants with respect to consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, and other customary restrictions. We believe we were in compliance with all covenants at March 31, 2018.  



 6. PURCHASE OF ADDITIONAL OWNERSHIP INTEREST IN JOINT VENTURE  



On February 13, 2017, we purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise Northeast LLC, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise II, for cash consideration of $42,688, which increased our controlling interest from 70% to 80%. Carrier Enterprise II was formed in 2011 as a joint venture with Carrier. Carrier Enterprise II had sales of approximately $545,000 in 2017 from 40 locations in the northeastern United States and 14 locations in Mexico.  





We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the earnings impact that foreign exchange rate fluctuations would otherwise have on certain monetary liabilities that are denominated in nonfunctional currencies.  



Cash Flow Hedging Instruments  



We enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges. The settlement of these derivatives results in reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings for the period in which the settlement of these instruments occurs. The maximum period for which we hedge our cash flow using these instruments is 12 months. Accordingly, at March 31, 2018, all of our open foreign currency forward contracts had maturities of one year or less. The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges at March 31, 2018 was $34,200, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through December 2018.  







At March 31, 2018, we expected an estimated $276 pre-tax gain to be reclassified into earnings to reflect the fixed prices obtained from foreign exchange hedging within the next 12 months.  



Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments  



We have also entered into foreign currency forward and option contracts that are either not designated as hedges or did not qualify for hedge accounting. These derivative instruments were effective economic hedges for all of the periods presented. The fair value gains and losses on these contracts are recognized in earnings as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses. The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments at March 31, 2018 was $15,450, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through August 2018.  



We recognized losses of $371 and $583 from foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated as hedging instruments in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  



The following table summarizes the fair value of derivative instruments, which consist solely of foreign exchange contracts, included in other current assets and accrued expenses and other current liabilities in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheets. See Note 8.  







 8. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS  









Available-for-sale securities – the investments are exchange-traded equity securities. Fair values for these investments are based on closing stock prices from active markets and are therefore classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.  



Derivative financial instruments – these derivatives are foreign currency forward and option contracts. See Note 7. Fair value is based on observable market inputs, such as forward rates in active markets; therefore, we classify these derivatives within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.  



There were no transfers in or out of Level 1 and Level 2 during the quarter ended March 31, 2018.  





Common Stock Dividends  



We paid cash dividends of $1.25 and $1.05 per share of Common stock and Class B common stock during the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  



Non-Vested Restricted Stock  



During the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we granted 91,609 and 100,399 shares of non-vested restricted stock, respectively.  



Exercise of Stock Options  



During the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, 35,083 and 13,750 stock options, respectively, were exercised for Common stock. Cash received from Common stock issued as a result of stock options exercised during the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $2,612 and $1,102, respectively. During the quarter ended March 31, 2018, 5,041 shares of Common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $914 were withheld as payment in lieu of cash for stock option exercises. These shares were retired upon delivery.  



Employee Stock Purchase Plan  



During the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, 2,047 and 1,953 shares of Common stock were issued under our employee stock purchase plan for which we received net proceeds of $346 and $285, respectively.  







During the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we issued 17,318 and 16,389 shares of Common stock, respectively, to our profit sharing retirement plan, representing the Common stock discretionary matching contribution of $2,945 and $2,428, respectively.  



Non-controlling Interest  







 10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  



Litigation, Claims and Assessments  



We are involved in litigation incidental to the operation of our business. We vigorously defend all matters in which we or our subsidiaries are named defendants and, for insurable losses, maintain significant levels of insurance to protect against adverse judgments, claims or assessments that may affect us. Although the adequacy of existing insurance coverage and the outcome of any legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, based on the current information available, we do not believe the ultimate liability associated with any known claims or litigation will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  



Self-Insurance  



Self-insurance reserves are maintained relative to company-wide casualty insurance and health benefit programs. The level of exposure from catastrophic events is limited by the purchase of stop-loss and aggregate liability reinsurance coverage. When estimating the self-insurance liabilities and related reserves, management considers a number of factors, which include historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and valuations provided by independent third-party actuaries. Management reviews its assumptions with its independent third-party actuaries to evaluate whether the self-insurance reserves are adequate. If actual claims or adverse development of loss reserves occur and exceed these estimates, additional reserves may be required. Reserves in the amounts of $2,363 and $2,344 at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, were established related to such programs and are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheets.  



 11. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  



Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 62% of all inventory purchases made during both the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, approximately $99,000 and $75,000, respectively, was payable to Carrier and its affiliates, net of receivables. Our joint ventures with Carrier also sell HVAC products to Carrier and its affiliates. Revenues in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 included approximately $16,000 and $11,000, respectively, of sales to Carrier and its affiliates. We believe these transactions are conducted on terms equivalent to an arm’s-length basis in the ordinary course of business.  





A member of our Board of Directors is the Senior Chairman of Greenberg Traurig, P.A., which serves as our principal outside counsel for compliance and acquisition-related legal services. During the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we paid this firm $4 for services performed, and $0 was payable at March 31, 2018.  





ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  



Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 10 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption “Litigation, Claims and Assessments,” which information is incorporated by reference in this Item 1 of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  





ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  



Information about risk factors for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 does not differ materially from that set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.  



