item1.txt
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under ASC Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flow, and other Topics. ASU 2016-15 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the guidance requires application using a retrospective method. The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-15 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements was to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows from financing activities within the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Company adopted ASU 2016-15 as of January 1, 2018, which resulted in the Company presenting fees paid for debt extinguishment as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods shown. 
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments, except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, that have readily determinable fair values to be measured at fair value with any changes in fair value recognized in net income. Equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values may be measured at estimated fair value or cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes, with changes in the carrying value recognized in net income. A qualitative assessment for impairment is required for equity investments without readily determinable fair values. The updated guidance also eliminates the requirement to disclose the method and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet. The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 as of January 1, 2018, which did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606). ASC 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605 and 985 and requires entities to recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The Company adopted ASC 606 as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. See Note 3 for further details. 
The Company is the lessee in a series of operating leases covering a large portion of the Company’s Kansas City, Missouri-based leased office facilities. The lessors are generally joint ventures (in which the Company has 50% ownership) that have been established specifically to purchase, finance and engage in leasing activities with the joint venture partners and unrelated third parties. The Company’s analysis of its real estate joint ventures for all periods presented indicate that none qualified as a VIE and, accordingly, they have not been consolidated.  
Client funds obligations represent funds owed to full service mutual fund transfer agency clients for cash balances invested overnight, and the Company’s contractual obligations to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations that are recorded on the balance sheet when incurred, generally after the Company has processed a claim on behalf of its pharmacy clients. 
The Company measures equity investments in marketable securities, seed capital investments and other investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee, at fair value, with changes in the fair value recognized in earnings. The Company uses net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method for those contracts that were not completed as of the date of adoption. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts continue to be reported in accordance with ASC 605 and 985. The most significant impact of the standard to the Company relates to the timing of revenue recognition for arrangements involving term licenses. Under ASC 606, the Company is required to recognize term license revenues upon the transfer of the license and recognize the associated maintenance revenues over the contract period, as opposed to the Company’s prior practice of recognizing both the term license and maintenance revenues ratably over the contract period. In addition, the Company is required to capitalize and amortize incremental costs of obtaining a contract, such as certain sales commission costs, over the expected customer relationship period if the Company expects to recover those costs. The Company previously expensed these costs over the length of the initial contract excluding any renewals.  
The Company recorded an increase to retained earnings of $65.8 million, or $47.9 million net of tax, as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to the Company’s term license revenues. The impact to revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 related to these adjustments was a decrease of $7.2 million and $28.6 million, respectively. 
The Company primarily offers software-enabled outsourcing services in which the Company utilizes its own software to offer comprehensive fund administration services for alternative investment managers, including fund manager services, transfer agency services, funds-of-funds services, tax processing and accounting. The Company also uses its own software applications to provide healthcare organizations a variety of medical and pharmacy benefit solutions to satisfy their information processing, quality of care, cost management concerns and payment integrity programs. The Company’s healthcare solutions include claims adjudication, benefit management, care management, business intelligence and other ancillary services. The Company also offers subscription-based on-demand software applications that are managed and hosted at the Company’s facilities. The software-enabled services arrangements provide an alternative for clients who do not wish to install, run and maintain complicated financial software. Under these arrangements, the client does not have the right to take possession of the software, rather, the Company agrees to provide access to its applications, remote use of its equipment to process transactions, access to client’s data stored on its equipment, and connectivity between its environment and the client’s computing systems.  
The Company generates revenues in the form of software license fees and related maintenance and services fees. License fees include perpetual license fees and term license fees that differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Maintenance and services primarily consist of fees for maintenance services (including support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they are available) and to a lesser extent professional services which focus on both deployment and training the Company’s customers to fully leverage the use of its products although the user can benefit from the software without the Company’s assistance.  
Software license performance obligations are functional intellectual property that are distinct as the user can benefit from the software on its own as defined under ASC 606. Software license revenues are recognized at the point of time when the software license has been delivered. Term license fees are typically due in annual installments at the beginning of each annual period and the Company records a contract asset for amounts recognized as revenue in excess of amounts billed. 
The Company recognizes revenues from maintenance ratably over the term of the underlying maintenance contract term because the Company transfers control evenly by providing a stand-ready service. The term of the maintenance contract is usually one year. Renewals of maintenance contracts create new performance obligations that are satisfied over the term with the revenues recognized ratably over the term. 
In contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company accounts for individual performance obligations separately if they are distinct. The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price out of total consideration of the contract. Standalone selling price is determined utilizing observable prices to the extent available. If the standalone selling price for a performance obligation is not directly observable, the Company estimates it maximizing the use of observable inputs. For maintenance and support, the Company determines the standalone selling price based on the price at which the Company separately sells a renewal contract and the economic relationship between licenses and maintenance. The Company primarily determines the standalone selling price for sales of licenses using the residual approach. For professional services, the Company determines the standalone selling prices based on the price at which the Company separately sells those services. 
The Company occasionally enters into license agreements requiring significant customization of the Company’s software that are not material to the Company’s results of operations. The Company accounts for the license and professional service fees under these agreements as a single performance obligation, recognized over time using an input method during the development of the license. This method requires estimates to be made for costs to complete the agreement utilizing an estimate of development man-hours remaining. Revenue is recognized each period based on the hours incurred to date compared to the total hours expected to complete the project. Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is at least reasonably possible that completion costs will be revised. Such revisions are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. Provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are determined on a contract-by-contract basis, and are made in the period in which such losses are first estimated or determined. 
Deferred revenues represent mostly unrecognized fees billed or collected for maintenance and professional services. Deferred revenues are recognized as (or when) the Company performs under the contract. Deferred revenues are recorded on a net basis with contract assets at the contract level. Accordingly, as of September 30, 2018, approximately $32.9 million of deferred revenue is presented net within contract assets arising from the same contracts. The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $33.1 million and $164.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. 
The refinancing of the Prior Credit Agreement was evaluated in accordance with FASB ASC 470-50, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments, for modification and extinguishment accounting. The Company accounted for the refinancing as a debt modification with respect to amounts that remained obligations of the same lender in the syndicate with minor changes in cash flows and as a debt extinguishment with respect to amounts that were obligations of lenders that exited the syndicate or remained in the syndicate but experienced a change in cash flows of greater than 10%. See Loss on extinguishment of debt section below. 


item2.txt
Investments in non-marketable equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values and do not qualify for the practical expedient to measure the investment using a net asset value per share are recorded using the measurement alternative in ASU 2016-01. These investments are recorded at cost, less impairment, adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer. At each reporting period, we assess if these investments continue to qualify for this measurement alternative. Impairment is recorded when there is evidence that the expected fair value of the investment has declined to below the recorded cost.  
We have certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity method of accounting in which our carrying value exceeds the proportionate share of net assets of the unconsolidated affiliate. The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. We record our proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss). 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Our revenues increased $574.2 million, or 137.3%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which included CommonWealth Fund Services Ltd. (“CommonWealth”) in the fourth quarter of 2017 and DST and CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) in the second quarter of 2018 which, combined, contributed $563.2 million in revenues. Additionally, revenues increased due to increased demand for our software-enabled services. The increase in revenues was partially offset by the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, which reduced revenue by $2.1 million. Software-enabled services revenues increased $545.2 million, or 193.3%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $534.7 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $0.6 million. License, maintenance and related revenues increased $29.0  
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Our revenues increased $1,073.2 million, or 86.8%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which contributed $1,039.6 million in revenues. Additionally, revenues increased due to increased demand for our software-enabled services and the favorable impact from foreign currency translation, which added $3.1 million. Software-enabled services revenues increased $1,032.6 million, or 124.2%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $991.1 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation was $2.3 million. License, maintenance and related revenues increased $40.6 million, or 10.0%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $48.4 million and the favorable impact from foreign currency translation of $0.8 million, partially offset by a decrease in professional services revenues.  
Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. The increase in total operating expenses in 2018 was primarily due to our acquisitions, which added expenses of $121.5 million and $356.9 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. Included in these costs are severance charges of $1.4 million and $21.6 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, related to the elimination of redundant positions within the acquired businesses. The impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $0.8 million and increased costs by $1.7 million for the three and nine month periods, respectively. Total operating expenses in both periods also increased due to higher personnel-related costs, higher legal-related expenses, and higher stock-based compensation. 
Other income (expense), net. We had other income, net of $13.7 million and $14.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. We had other expense, net of $2.5 million and $3.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, other income, net included investments gains and dividend income of $12.1 million and $13.4 million, respectively. The remaining portion of other income (expense), net consists primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. 
Loss on extinguishment of debt. We recorded a $44.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 in connection with the amendment and restatement of our credit agreement. The loss on extinguishment of debt includes the write-off of a portion of the unamortized capitalized financing fees and unamortized original issue discount related to the Prior Credit Agreement and Senior Notes for amounts accounted for as a debt extinguishment and a make-whole premium paid in connection with the redemption of the Senior Notes. We recorded a $2.3 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 in connection with the amendment of our Prior Credit Agreement. These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 
Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock. We expect our cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and cash available under our Credit Agreement to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months. 
In April 2018, we purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST for approximately $5.1 billion in cash, plus the costs of effecting the transaction. We funded the acquisition and refinancing of existing debt with $7.4 billion of debt financing (of which approximately $524.5 million was rolled over from our Prior Credit Agreement) and a portion of the net proceeds from the issuance and sale of approximately $1.4 billion of our common stock. We funded our acquisition of Eze in October 2018 with a combination of cash on-hand and $875.0 million in incremental term loan debt. We intend to fund our planned acquisition of Intralinks with $1.0 billion in incremental term loan debt and $0.5 billion in our common stock. 
In 2018, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of common stock on March 15, 2018 and June 15, 2018 and $0.08 per share of common stock on September 18, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2018, June 1, 2018 and September 4, 2018, respectively, totaling $50.7 million in the aggregate. In 2017, the Company paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0625 per share of common stock on March 15, 2017 and June 15, 2017 and $0.07 per share of common stock on September 15, 2017 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2017, June 1, 2017 and September 15, 2017, respectively, totaling $39.9 million in the aggregate. 
Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents, including amounts held on behalf of clients, were $1,273.0 million at September 30, 2018, an increase of $1,208.3 million from $64.7 million at December 31, 2017. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents is primarily due to proceeds received from our borrowings and common stock offering, the impact of restricted cash and cash equivalents held by DST as well as cash provided by operations and proceeds from stock option exercises. These increases were partially offset by cash used for acquisitions, repayments of debt, payment of dividends and capital expenditures. 


item3.txt
We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients. The balances maintained in the bank accounts will fluctuate. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we had average daily cash balances of approximately $2.1 billion maintained in such accounts. We estimate that a 100 basis point change in the interest earnings rate would equal approximately $8.9 million of net income on an annual basis. The effect of changes in interest rates attributable to earnings derived from cash balances we hold for clients is partially offset by changes in interest rates on our variable debt.  


item4.txt



