item1.txt
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under ASC Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flow, and other Topics. ASU 2016-15 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the guidance requires application using a retrospective method. The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-15 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements was to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows from financing activities within the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Company adopted ASU 2016-15 as of January 1, 2018, which resulted in the Company presenting fees paid for debt extinguishment as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods shown. 
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments, except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, that have readily determinable fair values to be measured at fair value with any changes in fair value recognized in net income. Equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values may be measured at estimated fair value or cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes, with changes in the carrying value recognized in net income. A qualitative assessment for impairment is required for equity investments without readily determinable fair values. The updated guidance also eliminates the requirement to disclose the method and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet. The Company adopted ASU 2016-01, which did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606). ASC 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605 and 985 and requires entities to recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The Company adopted ASC 606 as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. See Note 3 for further details. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2020 and earlier adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Application of the ASU is through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
The Company is the lessee in a series of operating leases covering a large portion of the Company’s Kansas City, Missouri-based leased office facilities. The lessors are generally joint ventures (in which the Company has 50% ownership) that have been established specifically to purchase, finance and engage in leasing activities with the joint venture partners and unrelated third parties. The Company’s analysis of its real estate joint ventures for all periods presented indicate that none qualified as a VIE and, accordingly, they have not been consolidated.  
The equity method of accounting is used for investments in entities, partnerships and similar interests (including investments in private equity funds where the Company is the limited partner and holds a greater than 5% partnership interest in the fund) in which the Company has significant influence but does not control. Under the equity method, the Company recognizes income or losses from its pro-rata share of these unconsolidated affiliates’ net income or loss, which changes the carrying value of the investment of the unconsolidated affiliate. 
The Company measures equity investments in marketable securities, seed capital investments and other investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee, at fair value, with changes in the fair value recognized in earnings. The Company uses net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  
The Company has certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity method of accounting in which the Company’s carrying value exceeds the proportionate share of net assets of the unconsolidated affiliate. The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company records its proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive (Loss) Income. 
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method for those contracts which were not completed as of the date of adoption. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts continue to be reported in accordance with ASC 605 and 985. The most significant impact of the standard to the Company relates to the timing of revenue recognition for arrangements involving term licenses. Under ASC 606, the Company is required to recognize term license revenues upon the transfer of the license and recognize the associated maintenance revenues over the contract period, as opposed to the Company’s prior practice of recognizing both the term license and maintenance revenues ratably over the contract period. In addition, the Company is required to capitalize and amortize incremental costs of obtaining a contract, such as certain sales commission costs, over the expected customer relationship period if the Company expects to recover those costs. The Company previously expensed these costs over the length of the initial contract excluding any renewals.  
The Company primarily offers software-enabled outsourcing services in which the Company utilizes its own software to offer comprehensive fund administration services for alternative investment managers, including fund manager services, transfer agency services, funds-of-funds services, tax processing and accounting. The Company also uses its own software applications to provide healthcare organizations a variety of medical and pharmacy benefit solutions to satisfy their information processing, quality of care, cost management concerns and payment integrity programs, while achieving compliance and improving operational efficiencies. The Company’s healthcare solutions include claims adjudication, benefit management, care management, business intelligence and other ancillary services. The Company also offers subscription-based on-demand software applications that are managed and hosted at the Company’s facilities. The software-enabled services arrangements provide an alternative for clients who do not wish to install, run and maintain complicated financial software. Under these arrangements, the client does not have the right to take possession of the software, rather, the Company agrees to provide access to its applications, remote use of its equipment to process transactions, access to client’s data stored on its equipment, and connectivity between its environment and the client’s computing systems.  
In software-enabled services arrangements, the arrangement is a single performance obligation or a stand-ready performance obligation, which in either case is comprised of a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer (i.e. distinct days or months of service). The Company applies a measure of progress (typically time-based) to any fixed consideration and allocates variable consideration to the distinct periods of service based on usage or summarization of account information. These variable payments relate specifically to the Company’s efforts to perform the services in the period in which the fee applies. This variability is solely attributed to and resolved as a result of the transfer of these services; these fees are independent of the transfer of past or future goods or services. These fees meet the allocation objective of ASC 606 because they represent the amount of consideration the Company is entitled to for these services. Revenue is generally recognized over the period the services are provided, which results in revenue recognition that corresponds with the value to the client of the services transferred to date relative to the remaining services promised. 
The Company generates revenues in the form of software license fees and related maintenance and services fees. License fees include perpetual license fees and term license fees which differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Maintenance and services primarily consist of fees for maintenance services (including support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they are available) and to a lesser extent professional services which focus on both deployment and training the Company’s customers to fully leverage the use of its products although the user can benefit from the software without the Company’s assistance.  
In contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company accounts for individual performance obligations separately if they are distinct.  The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price out of total consideration of the contract.  Standalone selling price is determined utilizing observable prices to the extent available. If the standalone selling price for a performance obligation is not directly observable, the Company estimates it maximizing the use of observable inputs. For maintenance and support, the Company determines the standalone selling price based on the price at which the Company separately sells a renewal contract and the economic relationship between licenses and maintenance.  The Company primarily determines the standalone selling price for sales of licenses using the residual approach.  For professional services, the Company determines the standalone selling prices based on the price at which the Company separately sells those services. 
The Company occasionally enters into license agreements requiring significant customization of the Company’s software which are not material to the Company’s results of operations. The Company accounts for the license and professional service fees under these agreements as a single performance obligation, recognized over time using an input method during the development of the license. This method requires estimates to be made for costs to complete the agreement utilizing an estimate of development man-hours remaining. Revenue is recognized each period based on the hours incurred to date compared to the total hours expected to complete the project. Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is at least reasonably possible that completion costs may be revised. Such revisions are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. Provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are determined on a contract-by-contract basis, and are made in the period in which such losses are first estimated or determined. 
Deferred revenues represent mostly unrecognized fees billed or collected for maintenance and professional services. Deferred revenues are recognized as (or when) the Company performs under the contract. Deferred revenues are recorded on a net basis with contract assets at the contract level. Accordingly, as of June 30, 2018, approximately $30.6 million of deferred revenue is presented net within contract assets arising from the same contracts. The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $54.4 million and $131.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. 
The majority of the initial proceeds from the Term Loans was used to satisfy the consideration required to fund the acquisition of DST, repay certain amounts outstanding under the Company’s then-existing credit agreement (“Prior Credit Agreement”), repay all of the outstanding principal amount of the Company’s 5.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (“Senior Notes”) and to repay acquired debt associated with DST.  


item2.txt
Investments in non-marketable equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values and do not qualify for the practical expedient to measure the investment using a net asset value per share are recorded using the measurement alternative in ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. These investments are recorded at cost, less impairment, adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer. At each reporting period, we assess if these investments continue to qualify for this measurement alternative. Impairment is recorded when there is evidence that the expected fair value of the investment has declined to below the recorded cost.  
On April 16, 2018, we purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) for approximately $5.1 billion in cash, plus the costs of effecting the transaction. In connection with this acquisition, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) pursuant to which we borrowed an aggregate of approximately $7.4 billion (approximately $524.5 million of which was rolled over from our existing credit facility). A portion of these proceeds was used to repay our Senior Notes and the remaining amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit facility. In addition, the Credit Agreement includes a revolving credit facility of $250.0 million, of which $241.2 million was available as of June 30, 2018. DST is a global provider of specialized technology, strategic advisory and business operations outsourcing to the financial services and healthcare industries. The net assets and results of operations of DST are included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements from April 16, 2018. The relevant business combination disclosures have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
On July 31, 2018, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Eze Software (“Eze”) from TPG Capital. Under the terms of the agreement, we will purchase Eze in an all-cash transaction of $1.45 billion. The transaction is expected to close by the fourth quarter of 2018 and is subject to clearances by the relevant regulatory authorities and other customary closing conditions. We plan to fund the acquisition with a combination of cash on hand and term loan debt. Eze provides investment management solutions designed to optimize operational and investment alpha running throughout the entire investment process. 
Three Months Ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. Our revenues increased $484.8 million, or 118.0%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which included CommonWealth Fund Services Ltd. (“CommonWealth”) in the fourth quarter of 2017 and DST and CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) in the second quarter of 2018 which, combined, contributed $474.6 million in revenues. Additionally, revenues increased due to increased demand for our software-enabled services. The increase in revenues was also due to the favorable impact from foreign currency translation that added $1.9 million. Software-enabled services revenues increased $469.1 million, or 172.1%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $454.6 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation was $1.1 million. License, maintenance and related revenues increased $15.7 million, or 11.3%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $20.0 million. 
Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. Our revenues increased $499.0 million, or 61.0%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which contributed $476.4 million in revenues. Additionally, revenues increased due to increased demand for our software-enabled services. The increase in revenues was also due to the favorable impact from foreign currency translation that added $5.2 million. Software-enabled services revenues increased $487.4 million, or 88.8%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $456.4 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation was $2.9 million. License, maintenance and related revenues increased $11.6 million, or 4.3%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $20.0 million, partially offset by lower demand for professional services. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation was $2.3 million. 
Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. The increase in total operating expenses in 2018 was primarily due to our acquisitions, which added expenses of $234.8 million and $235.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. Included in these costs are charges of $20.2 million in 2018 related to the elimination of redundant positions within the acquired businesses. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation added $0.8 million and $2.6 million for the three and six month periods, respectively. Total operating expenses in both periods also increased due to higher legal-related expenses, higher personnel-related costs and higher stock-based compensation, partially offset by a decrease in bad debt expense. 
Interest expense, net. We had net interest expense of $70.2 million and $95.6 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to $26.3 million and $55.3 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. The increase in interest expense, net for the three- and six month periods reflects incremental borrowings in connection with our acquisition of DST and, to a lesser extent, higher average interest rates. These increases were partially offset by the impact of repayments of the Prior Credit Agreement. These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 
Loss on extinguishment of debt. We recorded a $44.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 in connection with the amendment and restatement of our credit agreement. The loss on extinguishment of debt includes the write-off of a portion of the unamortized capitalized financing fees and unamortized original issue discount related to the Prior Credit Agreement and Senior Notes for amounts accounted for as a debt extinguishment and a make-whole premium paid in connection with the redemption of the Senior Notes. We recorded a $2.3 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the six months ended June 30, 2017 in connection with the amendment of our Prior Credit Agreement. These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 
Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents, including amounts held on behalf of clients, were $1,503.1 million at June 30, 2018, an increase of $1,438.4 million from $64.7 million at December 31, 2017. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents is primarily due to proceeds received from our borrowings and common stock offering, the impact of restricted cash and cash equivalents held by DST as well cash provided by operations and proceeds from stock option exercises. These increases were partially offset by cash used for acquisitions, repayments of debt, payment of dividends and capital expenditures. 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $119.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net losses of $12.5 million adjusted for non-cash items of $215.7 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $83.5 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, accounts payable and by changes in income taxes prepaid and payable, partially offset by decreases in accounts receivable, contract assets and prepaid expenses and other assets. In total, cash provided by operating activities was negatively affected by one-time payments totaling $135.0 million related to the DST acquisition. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2018. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to an overall decrease in days’ sales outstanding. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to the timing of payments, particularly as a result of the mid-month acquisition of DST. The decrease in contract assets was primarily due to the adoption of ASC 606.  


item3.txt
We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients. The balances maintained in the bank accounts will fluctuate. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, we had average daily cash balances of approximately $2.1 billion maintained in such accounts. We estimate that a 100 basis point change in the interest earnings rate would equal approximately $8.7 million of net (loss) income on an annual basis. The effect of changes in interest rates attributable to earnings derived from cash balances we hold for clients is partially offset by changes in interest rates on our variable debt.  


item4.txt



part2.txt
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1. 


