item1.txt
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). These accounting principles were applied on a basis consistent with those of the audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on February 28, 2018 (the “2017 Form 10-K”). In the opinion of the Company, the accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments (consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, except as noted elsewhere in the notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements) necessary for a fair statement of its financial position as of March 31, 2018, the results of its operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and its cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Such reclassifications did not affect total revenues, operating income or net income. These statements do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual financial statements. The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017, which were included in the 2017 Form 10-K. The December 31, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet data were derived from audited financial statements but do not include all disclosures required by GAAP for annual financial statements. The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the expected results for any subsequent quarters or the full year.  
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flow, and other Topics. ASU 2016-15 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the guidance requires application using a retrospective method. The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-15 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements was to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows from financing activities within the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Company adopted ASU 2016-15, which did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This ASU would require lessees to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases) at the commencement date; (i) a lease liability, which is a lessee’s obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and (ii) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee’s right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term. Lessor accounting is largely unchanged under the amendments of this ASU. Additional disclosures will be required to allow the user to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leasing activities. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for leases  
existing at the time of adoption. ASU 2016-02 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2019 and earlier adoption is permitted. The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-02 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements will be to recognize the majority of the Company’s operating lease commitments as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will result in a material increase in the assets and liabilities recorded on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company is continuing its assessment, which may identify additional impacts this ASU will have on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures and internal controls over financial reporting. 
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method for those contracts which were not completed as of the date of adoption. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts continue to be reported in accordance with ASC 605 and 985. The most significant impact of the standard to the Company relates to the timing of revenue recognition for arrangements involving term licenses. Under ASC 606, the Company is required to recognize term license revenues upon the transfer of the license and recognize the associated maintenance revenues over the contract period, as opposed to the Company’s prior practice of recognizing both the term license and maintenance revenues ratably over the contract period. In addition, the Company is required to capitalize and amortize incremental costs of obtaining a contract, such as certain sales commission costs, over the expected customer relationship period if the Company expects to recover those costs. The Company previously expensed these costs over the length of the initial contract excluding any renewals.  
The Company recorded an increase to retained earnings of $65.8 million, or $47.9 million net of tax, as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to the Company’s term license revenues. The impact to revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to these adjustments was a decrease of $11.8 million. 
The Company primarily offers software-enabled outsourcing services in which the Company utilizes its own software to offer comprehensive fund administration services for alternative investment managers, including fund manager services, transfer agency services, funds-of-funds services, tax processing and accounting. The Company also offers subscription-based on-demand software applications that are managed and hosted at the Company’s facilities. The software-enabled services arrangements provide an alternative for clients who do not wish to install, run and maintain complicated financial software. Under these arrangements, the client does not have the right to take possession of the software, rather, the Company agrees to provide access to its applications, remote use of its equipment to process transactions, access to client’s data stored on its equipment, and connectivity between its environment and the client’s computing systems.  
The Company generates revenues in the form of software license fees and related maintenance and services fees. License fees include perpetual license fees and term license fees which differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Maintenance and services primarily consist of fees for maintenance services (including support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they are available) and to a lesser extent professional services which focus on both deployment and training the Company’s customers to fully leverage the use of its products although the user can benefit from the software without the Company’s assistance.  
Software license performance obligations are functional intellectual property that are distinct as the user can benefit from the software on its own as defined under ASC 606. Software license revenues are recognized at the point of time when the software license has been delivered. Term license fees are typically due in annual installments at the beginning of each annual period and we record a contract asset for amounts recognized as revenue in excess of amounts billed. 
In contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company accounts for individual performance obligations separately if they are distinct. The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price out of total consideration of the contract. Standalone selling price is determined utilizing observable prices to the extent available. If the standalone selling price for a performance obligation is not directly observable, the Company estimates it maximizing the use of observable inputs. For maintenance and support, the Company determines the standalone selling price based on the price at which the Company separately sells a renewal contract and the economic relationship between licenses and maintenance. The Company determines the standalone selling price for sales of licenses using the residual approach. For professional services, the Company determines the standalone selling prices based on the price at which the Company separately sells those services. 
The Company occasionally enters into license agreements requiring significant customization of the Company’s software which are not material to the Company’s results of operations. The Company accounts for the license and professional service fees under these agreements as a single performance obligation, recognized over time using an input method during the development of the license. This method requires estimates to be made for costs to complete the agreement utilizing an estimate of development man-hours remaining. Revenue is recognized each period based on the hours incurred to date compared to the total hours expected to complete the project. Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is at least reasonably possible that completion costs may be revised. Such revisions are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. Provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are determined on a contract-by-contract basis, and are made in the period in which such losses are first estimated or determined. 
Deferred revenues represent mostly unrecognized fees billed or collected for maintenance and professional services. Deferred revenues are recognized as (or when) the Company performs under the contract. Deferred revenues are recorded on a net basis with contract assets at the contract level. Accordingly, approximately $29.3 million of deferred revenue is presented net within contract assets arising from the same contracts. The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $76.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. 
As of March 31, 2018, revenue of approximately $266.3 million is expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations for license, maintenance and related revenues, of which $174.1 million is expected to be recognized over the next twelve months. Software-enabled services are generally provided under contracts which are cancelable with 90 days’ notice.  
Costs of revenues include all costs, including depreciation and amortization, incurred to produce revenues. Incremental costs of obtaining a contract (e.g., sales commissions) are capitalized and amortized on a basis consistent with the pattern of transfer of goods or services to the customer to which the asset relates over the expected customer relationship period if the Company expects to recover those costs. The Company previously expensed these costs over the length of the initial contract excluding any renewals. The expected customer relationship period is determined based on average historical customer relationship periods, including expected renewals. Expected renewal periods are only included in the expected customer relationship period if commission amounts paid upon renewal are not commensurate with amounts paid on the initial contract. Incremental costs of obtaining a contract include only those costs the Company incurs to obtain a contract that it would not have incurred if the contract had not been obtained. The Company has determined that certain commissions programs meet the requirements to be capitalized. Certain sales commissions associated with multi-year contracts are subject to an employee service requirement. As an action other than each party approving the contract is required to trigger payment of these sales commissions, they are not considered incremental costs to obtain a contract and are expensed as incurred. These costs are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. 
For the Company’s software-enabled services contracts which are cancelable with 90 days’ notice, the Company uses the practical expedient applicable to such contracts and has not disclosed the transaction price for the remaining performance obligations as of the end of each reporting period or when the Company expects to recognize this revenue. 


item2.txt
On April 16, 2018, the Company purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) for approximately $5.0 billion in cash, plus the costs, fees, expenses and debt assumed in connection with the transaction. In connection with this acquisition, the Company entered into an amended and restated senior secured credit facility pursuant to which the Company borrowed an aggregate of approximately $7.4 billion (approximately $524.5 million of which was rolled over from the Company’s existing credit facility). A portion of these proceeds was used to repay the Company’s Senior Notes and the remaining amounts outstanding under the Company’s existing credit facility. In addition, the amended and restated senior secured credit facility includes an undrawn revolving credit facility of $250.0 million. DST is a global provider of specialized technology, strategic advisory and business operations outsourcing to the financial services and healthcare industries. The net assets and results of operations of DST will be included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements from April 16, 2018. The relevant business combination disclosures will be included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements once preliminary accounting has been completed. 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Our revenues increased $14.2 million or 3.5%. Revenues increased primarily due to increased demand for our software-enabled services. Our acquisitions, which included CommonWealth Fund Services Ltd. (“CommonWealth”) in the fourth quarter of 2017, contributed $1.8 million in revenues and the favorable impact from foreign currency translation added $3.3 million, which resulted primarily from the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the British Pound, the Euro and the Canadian dollar. Software-enabled services revenues increased $18.4 million or 6.6% primarily due to a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services as well as services for advisory and wealth managers. Acquisitions contributed $1.8 million and the favorable impact from foreign currency translation was $1.8 million. License, maintenance and related revenues decreased $4.1 million or 3.1% primarily due to lower demand for professional services and the impact on term licenses as a result of the implementation of ASC 606. Offsetting the overall decrease in license, maintenance and related revenues was an increase of $1.5 million due to the favorable impact from foreign currency translation. 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Our total cost of revenues increased $12.1 million or 5.6%. Acquisitions contributed $1.3 million to the increase and the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation added $3.6 million, which resulted primarily from the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the British Pound, the Euro and the Canadian dollar. Costs of software-enabled services revenues increased $13.4 million primarily due to increased personnel-related costs as well as rent and occupancy costs incurred to support the growth in software –enabled services revenues. Acquisitions added $1.3 million and the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation added $2.8 million. Costs of license, maintenance and related revenues decreased $1.3 million primarily due to a decrease in personnel-related costs, offset by an increase of $0.8 million due to the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.  
Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Operating expenses increased $5.0 million, or 4.9% primarily due to higher professional fees associated with the acquisition of DST, legal-related expenses and higher personnel-related costs, partially offset by a decrease in rent and occupancy costs. Acquisitions added $0.3 million and the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation added $1.7 million, which resulted primarily from the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the British Pound, the Euro and the Canadian dollar. 


item3.txt



part2.txt
We derive our revenues from the delivery of products and services to clients primarily in the financial services and healthcare industries. Demand for our products and services among companies in those industries could decline for many reasons. If demand for our products or services decreases or any of the industries we serve decline, our business and our operating results could be adversely affected. 
In addition, any other events that adversely affect our clients’ businesses, rates of growth or numbers of clients they serve could decrease demand for our products and services and the number of transactions we process. Events that could adversely affect our clients’ businesses include decreased demand for our clients’ products and services, adverse conditions in our clients’ markets or adverse economic conditions generally. We may be unsuccessful in predicting the needs of changing industries and whether potential clients will accept our products or services. We also may invest in technology or infrastructure for specific clients and not realize additional revenue from such investments. If trends or events do not occur as we expect, our business could be negatively impacted. 
These clients and our business relating to them are affected by trends, developments and risks associated with the global hedge fund industry. In addition, the market environment for hedge funds involves risk and has suffered significant turmoil, including as a result of substantial changes in global economies, political uncertainty, stock market declines and new regulatory initiatives. Even in the absence of such factors, the global hedge fund industry is subject to fluctuations in assets under management that are impossible to predict or anticipate. Further, investor demand for hedge funds has experienced recent declines and increased withdrawals as a result of poor performance relative to benchmark indices and increased negative investor sentiment on fees. These risks and trends could significantly and adversely affect some or all of our hedge fund clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, market forces have negatively impacted liquidity for many of the financial instruments in which hedge fund client’s trade, which, in turn, could negatively impact our ability to access independent pricing sources for valuing those instruments. 
In the financial and healthcare markets we serve, we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products or services offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and other intermediary relationships, quality of service, and level of fees charged for products and services.  The market for financial and healthcare services software and services is competitive, rapidly evolving and highly sensitive to new product and service introductions and marketing efforts by industry participants.  The markets we serve are also highly fragmented and served by numerous firms that target only local markets or specific client types.  We also face competition from information systems developed and serviced internally by the IT departments of financial services firms.  Some of our current and potential competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, distribution and marketing resources, generate higher revenues and have greater name recognition. Our current or potential competitors may develop products comparable or superior to those developed by us, or adapt more quickly to new technologies, evolving industry trends or changing client or regulatory requirements.  It is also possible that our competitors may enter into alliances with each other or other third-parties, and through such alliances, acquire increased market share.  Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share.  Accordingly, our failure to successfully compete in any of our material businesses could have a material adverse effect on results of operations.  Competition could also affect the revenue mix of products or services we provide, resulting in decreased revenues in lines of business with higher profit margins, and our business may not grow as expected and may decline. 
A war, terrorist attack, natural disaster, pandemic or other catastrophe may adversely affect our business. A catastrophic event could have a direct negative impact on us or an indirect impact on us by, for example, affecting our clients, the financial markets or the overall economy and reducing our ability to provide, our clients’ ability to use, and the demand for, our products and services. The potential for a direct effect on our business operations is due primarily to our significant investment in infrastructure. Although we maintain redundant facilities and have contingency plans in place to protect against both man-made and natural threats, it is impossible to fully anticipate and protect against all potential catastrophes. A computer virus, physical or cyber security breach, criminal act, military action, power or communication failure, flood, severe storm or the like could lead to service interruptions and data losses for clients, disruptions to our operations, or damage to important facilities. In addition, such an event may cause clients to cancel their agreements with us for our products or services. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. 
Our software-enabled services maintain and process confidential data and process trades and perform other back-office functions, including wiring funds, on behalf of our clients, some of which is critical to their business operations. For example, our trading systems maintain account and trading information for our clients and their customers. Our internal technology infrastructure on which our software-enabled services depend may be subject to disruptions or may otherwise fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and that could  
In providing our software-enabled services to our customers, we depend upon IT infrastructure that is primarily managed by our firm, but we also depend on third-party service providers to provide some of the IT infrastructure on which we rely. Although we seek to ensure that appropriate security and other standards are maintained by these third-parties, these third-parties are also subject to the risks discussed in the preceding risk factor, and there is no guarantee that they will maintain systems and procedures sufficient to protect against system failures and security breaches, including as a result of cyber-attacks. 
In addition, the third-parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries, are susceptible to the risks described in the preceding risk factor (including regarding the third-parties with which they are similarly interconnected), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom they are interconnected or conduct business. 
We currently have approximately 4,038 employees located in India. The economy of India may differ favorably or unfavorably from the U.S. economy and our business may be adversely affected by the general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies. In particular, in recent years, India’s government has adopted policies that are designed to promote foreign investment, including significant tax incentives, relaxation of regulatory restrictions, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriations. These policies may not continue. In addition, we are subject to risks relating to social stability, political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. 
Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, and nondisclosure agreements, license agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information. We have registered trademarks for some of our products and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, distributors, clients and potential clients. However, these efforts may be insufficient to prevent those parties or others from infringing, misappropriating, violating or asserting rights in our intellectual property, confidential information or other technology and our proprietary technology and confidential information may be subject to embezzlement, theft, or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or third-parties. In addition, our employees, distributors, clients and potential clients may breach our confidentiality agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Furthermore, it may be possible for unauthorized third-parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. If a third-party were to gain unauthorized access to or independently develop the confidential or proprietary information we possess, we could suffer a loss of revenues, we could experience an adverse impact on our  


