item1.txt
We adopted ASU 2016-02 as of January 1, 2019. Prior period information was not restated and continues to be presented under ASC 840, Leases. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition. In addition, we will not apply the guidance of ASC 842 to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less as allowed by the standard. 
Our lease portfolio primarily consists of real estate office space with lease terms ranging from 1 to 15 years. Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets and lease payment obligations for our real estate office leases of $387.6 million and $417.8 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019. As of September 30, 2019, $55.5 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The standard did not materially impact our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) or Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. See Note 3, “Leases” for further details. 
We have certain lease agreements with our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. We recognized operating lease expense of $0.7 million and $2.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, related to these lease agreements. 
Our total operating lease costs were $19.8 million and $59.5 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively. Cash paid for amounts included in operating lease liabilities was $18.5 million and $54.9 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and is included in operating cash flows. Total right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities was $22.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019. Our weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rates as of September 30, 2019 were 8.4 years and 5.0%, respectively. 
We have certain sublease agreements in place with 3rd parties to lease portions of our office space. In addition, we serve as a lessor in other lease agreements for real estate and storage facilities. Total gross sublease and other rental income recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were approximately $2.2 million and $6.9 million, respectively.  
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we held certain investment assets and certain liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis. These investments include money market funds, marketable equity securities and seed capital investments where fair value is determined using quoted prices in active markets. Accordingly, the fair value measurements of these investments have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below. Investments for which we elected net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and investments measured using the fair value measurement alternative are excluded from the tables below. Fair value for deferred compensation liabilities that are credited with deemed gains or losses of the underlying hypothetical investments, primarily equity securities, have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below.  
We have partnership interests in various private equity funds that are not included in the tables above. Our investments in private equity funds were $95.0 million at September 30, 2019, of which $90.3 million were measured using net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and $4.7 million were accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The investments in private equity funds represent underlying investments in domestic and international markets across various industry sectors. One of our investments in private equity funds as of September 30, 2019, represented 80% of the value of the private equity fund investment portfolio. We have no management rights associated with our partnership interests in this fund and withdrawals from this fund are subject to general partner consent. This fund has a termination date in 2020 with an optional one-year extension at the discretion of the general partner. We expect to receive distributions from this fund upon liquidation of the underlying investments over the next several years, however the exact timing of the distributions is unknown. We have no unfunded commitments related to this fund.  
At any time prior to March 30, 2022, we may, at our option, redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. At any time on or after March 30, 2022, we may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at the redemption prices set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. In addition, at any time on or before March 30, 2022, we may redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.5% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net proceeds of one or more equity offerings.  
We evaluated the issuance of our Senior Notes and repayment of a portion of our Term B-3 Loan, in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification 470-50, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments, for modification and extinguishment accounting. We accounted for the refinancing as a debt modification with respect to amounts that remained obligations of the same lender with minor changes in cash flows and as a debt extinguishment with respect to amounts that were obligations of lenders which remained but experienced a change in cash flows of greater than 10%. As a result, we capitalized an aggregate of $6.1 million in financing costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Other costs incurred by us in connection with the Senior Notes, of $7.1 million, which did not meet the criteria for capitalization, are included in Loss on extinguishment of debt in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) during the nine months ended September 30, 2019. 
The above fair values, which are Level 2 liabilities, were computed based on comparable quoted market prices. The fair values of cash, accounts receivable, net, short-term borrowings, and accounts payable approximate the carrying amounts due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. 
Dividends. In 2019, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock totaling $76.0 million in the aggregate. In 2018, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of common stock in March and June of 2018 and $0.08 per share of common stock in September of 2018 totaling $50.7 million in the aggregate. 


item3.txt
We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients. The balances maintained in the bank accounts will fluctuate. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we had average daily cash balances of approximately $2.3 billion maintained in such accounts. We estimate that a 100 basis point change in the interest earnings rate would equal approximately $9.0 million of net income on an annual basis. The effect of changes in interest rates attributable to earnings derived from cash balances we hold for clients is offset by changes in interest rates on our variable debt.  
We have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investments in equity securities. Equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. The fair value of our investments that are subject to equity price risk as of September 30, 2019 was approximately $120.5 million. The impact of a 10% change in fair value of these investments would have been approximately $9.0 million to net income. Changes in equity values of our investments could have a material effect on our results of operations and our financial position. 


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2019. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2019, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. 


