item1.txt
We adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), as of January 1, 2019. Prior period information was not restated and continues to be presented under ASC 840, Leases. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition. In addition, we will not apply the guidance of ASC 842 to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less as allowed by the standard. 
Our lease portfolio primarily consists of real estate office space with lease terms ranging from 1 to 15 years. Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets and lease payment obligations for our real estate office leases of $387.6 million and $417.8 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019. As of March 31, 2019, $56.4 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The standard did not materially impact our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income or Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. See Note 3, “Leases” for further details. 
We determine if our contractual agreements contain a lease at inception. A lease is identified when a contract allows us the right to control an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Our lease agreements consist primarily of operating leases for office space. 
Our operating leases are included on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities. An operating lease asset represents our right to use an underlying asset over the term of a lease while an operating lease liability represents our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date at the present value of the base minimum rent payments. Operating lease assets are also recognized at the commencement date as the total operating lease liability plus prepaid rents and less any deferred rent liabilities that existed under ASC 840. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our estimated secured incremental borrowing rate based on the significant geographic regions in which we operate based on the information available at lease commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. 
We have certain lease agreements with our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. We recognized operating lease expense of $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 related to these lease agreements. 
We have certain sublease agreements in place with 3rd parties to lease portions of our office space. In addition, we serve as a lessor in other lease agreements for real estate and storage facilities. Total gross sublease and other rental income recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 was approximately $2.5 million.  
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we held certain investment assets and certain liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis. These investments include money market funds, marketable equity securities and seed capital investments where fair value is determined using quoted prices in active markets. Accordingly, the fair value measurements of these investments have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below. Investments for which we elected net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and investments measured using the fair value measurement alternative are excluded from the tables below.  
We have partnership interests in various private equity funds that are not included in the tables above. Our investments in private equity funds were $100.7 million at March 31, 2019, of which $93.5 million were measured using net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and $7.2 million were accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The investments in private equity funds represent underlying investments in domestic and international markets across various industry sectors. One of our investments in private equity funds as of March 31, 2019, representing 78% of the value of the private equity fund investments, was concentrated in one fund that is primarily invested in the energy sector and real estate. We have no management rights associated with our partnership interests in this fund and withdrawals from this fund are subject to general partner consent. This fund has a termination date in 2019 with an optional two-year extension at the discretion of the general partner. We expect to receive distributions from this fund upon liquidation of the underlying investments over the next several years, however the exact timing of the distributions is unknown. We have no unfunded commitments related to this fund. Future capital commitments related to our other private equity fund investments were approximately $1.8 million as of March 31, 2019. 
Generally, our investments in private equity funds are non-transferable or are subject to long holding periods, and withdrawals from the private equity firm partnerships are typically not permitted. Even when transfer restrictions do not apply, there is generally no public market for the securities. Therefore, we may not be able to sell the securities at a time when we desire to do so. We may  
Investments in unconsolidated affiliates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. We record our proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
At any time prior to March 30, 2022, we may, at our option, redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. At any time on or after March 30, 2022, we may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at the redemption prices set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. In addition, at any time on or before March 30, 2022, we may redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.5% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net proceeds of one or more equity offerings.  
We evaluated the issuance of our Senior Notes and repayment of a portion of our Term B-3 Loan, in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification 470-50, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments, for modification and extinguishment accounting. We accounted for the refinancing as a debt modification with respect to amounts that remained obligations of the same lender with minor changes in cash flows and as a debt extinguishment with respect to amounts that were obligations of lenders which remained but experienced a change in cash flows of greater than 10%. As a result, we capitalized an aggregate of $6.1 million in financing costs during the three months ended March 31, 2019. Other costs incurred by us in connection with the Senior Notes, of $7.1 million, which did not meet the criteria for capitalization, are included in Loss on extinguishment of debt in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income during the three months ended March 31, 2019. 
The above fair values, which are Level 2 liabilities, were computed based on comparable quoted market prices. The fair values of cash, accounts receivable, net, short-term borrowings, and accounts payable approximate the carrying amounts due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. 


item2.txt
Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. Our revenues increased $715.3 million, or 169.5%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which included DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) and CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) in the second quarter of 2018 and Eze Software Group, LLC (“Eze”) and Intralinks Holdings, Inc. (“Intralinks”) in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $703.4 million in revenues. Additionally, revenues increased due to increased demand for our software-enabled services. The increase in revenues was partially offset by the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, which reduced revenues by $2.7 million. Software-enabled services revenues increased $677.2 million, or 229.7%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $668.7 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $1.2 million. License, maintenance and related revenues increased $38.1 million, or 30.0%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $34.8 million. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $1.5 million. 
Other income, net. We had other income, net of $3.5 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, other income, net included investment gains and dividend income of $8.0 million. The remaining portion of other income, net consisted primarily of foreign currency transaction losses. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, other income, net consisted primarily of foreign currency transaction losses. 
Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock. We expect our cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and cash available under our Credit Agreement to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months. 
Client funds obligations represent our contractual obligations within the DST business to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by us. In addition, client funds obligations include transfer agency client balances invested overnight. Our contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client obligations are primarily sourced by funds held on behalf of clients. We had $954.8 million of client funds obligations at March 31, 2019. 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $137.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $80.8 million adjusted for non-cash items of $193.4 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $136.8 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, changes in income taxes prepaid and payable and increases in accounts receivable, partially offset by decreases in contract assets and prepaid expenses and other assets, as well as increases in deferred revenue and accounts payable. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to a slight increase in days’ sales outstanding as well as the billing of receivables for annual maintenance invoices that are typically billed in the first quarter of each year. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets and the increase in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments.  
Net cash provided by operating activities was $69.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $51.3 million adjusted for non-cash items of $64.3 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $45.7 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, accounts payable and deferred revenue and an increase in accounts receivable, partially offset by changes in contract assets and income taxes prepaid and payable. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2018. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. The decrease in deferred revenue and change in contract assets was primarily due to the adoption of ASC 606. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to an increase in days’ sales outstanding related to receivables for annual maintenance invoices that are typically billed in the first quarter of each year. 
The obligations of the U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of such persons (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations) and 65% of the capital stock of certain foreign restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations). All obligations of the non-U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our and the other guarantors’ assets (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of our wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (with customary exceptions and limitations). 
The Credit Agreement includes negative covenants that, among other things and subject to certain thresholds and exceptions, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to incur debt or liens, make investments (including in the form of loans and acquisitions), merge, liquidate or dissolve, sell property and assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries, pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock, alter the business we conduct, amend, prepay, redeem or purchase subordinated debt, or engage in transactions with our affiliates. The Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default, subject to customary thresholds and exceptions. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant for the benefit of the Revolving Credit Facility requiring us to maintain a minimum consolidated net secured leverage ratio. In addition, under the Credit Agreement, certain defaults under agreements governing other  
At any time prior to March 30, 2022, we may, at our option, redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. At any time on or after March 30, 2022, we may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at the redemption prices set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. In addition, at any time on or before March 30, 2022, we may to redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.5% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net proceeds of one or more equity offerings.  
Under the Revolving Credit Facility portion of the Credit Agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain a specified financial ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter if the sum of (i) outstanding amount of all loans under the Revolving Credit Facility and (ii) all non-cash collateralized letters of credit issued under the Revolving Credit Facility in excess of $20 million is equal to or greater than 30% of the total commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility. Our financial ratio became effective with the period ended September 30, 2018. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet this ratio. Any breach of this covenant could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Any default and subsequent acceleration of payments under the Credit Agreement would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Additionally, under the Credit Agreement, our ability to engage in activities such as incurring additional indebtedness, making investments and paying dividends is also tied to baskets and ratios based on Consolidated EBITDA. 
Consolidated EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure used in key financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, which is the material facility supporting our capital structure and providing liquidity to our business. Consolidated EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), further adjusted to exclude unusual items and other adjustments permitted in calculating covenant compliance under the Credit Agreement. We believe that the inclusion of supplementary adjustments to EBITDA applied in presenting Consolidated EBITDA is appropriate to provide additional information to investors to demonstrate compliance with the specified financial ratio and other financial condition tests contained in the Credit Agreement. 
Consolidated EBITDA does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as those terms are defined by generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and does not necessarily indicate whether cash flows will be sufficient to fund cash needs. Further, the Credit Agreement requires that Consolidated EBITDA be calculated for the most recent four fiscal quarters. As a result, the measure can be disproportionately affected by a particularly strong or weak quarter. Further, it may not be comparable to the measure for any subsequent four-quarter period or any complete fiscal year. 


item3.txt
We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients. The balances maintained in the bank accounts will fluctuate. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, we had average daily cash balances of approximately $2.6 billion maintained in such accounts. We estimate that a 100 basis point change in  
the interest earnings rate would equal approximately $10.3 million of net income on an annual basis. The effect of changes in interest rates attributable to earnings derived from cash balances we hold for clients is offset by changes in interest rates on our variable debt.  


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2019. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2019, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. 


part2.txt
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 


