item1.txt
We adopted ASU 2016-02 as of January 1, 2019. Prior period information was not restated and continues to be presented under ASC 840, Leases. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition. In addition, we will not apply the guidance of ASC 842 to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less as allowed by the standard. 
We determine if our contractual agreements contain a lease at inception. A lease is identified when a contract allows us the right to control an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Our lease agreements consist primarily of operating leases for office space. 
Our operating leases are included on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities. An operating lease asset represents our right to use an underlying asset over the term of a lease while an operating lease liability represents our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date at the present value of the base minimum rent payments. Operating lease assets are also recognized at the commencement date as the total operating lease liability adjusted for prepaid rents, deferred rent liabilities and lease fair value adjustments that existed under ASC 840. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our estimated secured incremental borrowing rate within each of the significant geographic regions in which we operate based on the information available at lease commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. 
We have certain lease agreements with our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. We recognized operating lease expense of $0.7 million and $1.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, related to these lease agreements. 
Our total operating lease costs were $19.8 million and $39.7 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. Cash paid for amounts included in operating lease liabilities was $18.6 million and $36.4 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and is included in operating cash flows. Our weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rates as of June 30, 2019 were 8.4 years and 5.0%, respectively. 
We have certain sublease agreements in place with 3rd parties to lease portions of our office space. In addition, we serve as a lessor in other lease agreements for real estate and storage facilities. Total gross sublease and other rental income recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were approximately $2.2 million and $4.7 million, respectively.  
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we held certain investment assets and certain liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis. These investments include money market funds, marketable equity securities and seed capital investments where fair value is determined using quoted prices in active markets. Accordingly, the fair value measurements of these investments have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below. Investments for which we elected net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and investments measured using the fair value measurement alternative are excluded from the tables below.  
Fair value for deferred compensation liabilities that are credited with deemed gains or losses of the underlying hypothetical investments, primarily equity securities, have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below.  
We have partnership interests in various private equity funds that are not included in the tables above. Our investments in private equity funds were $126.4 million at June 30, 2019, of which $119.2 million were measured using net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and $7.2 million were accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The investments in private equity funds represent underlying investments in domestic and international markets across various industry sectors. One of our investments in private equity funds as of June 30, 2019, represented 82% of the value of the private equity fund investment portfolio. We have no management rights associated with our partnership interests in this fund and withdrawals from this fund are subject to general partner consent. This fund has a termination date in 2020 with an optional one-year extension at the discretion of the general partner. We expect to receive distributions from this fund upon liquidation of the underlying investments over the next several years, however the exact timing of the distributions is unknown. We have no unfunded commitments related to this fund. Future capital commitments related to our other private equity fund investments were approximately $1.8 million as of June 30, 2019. 
Investments in unconsolidated affiliates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. We record our proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. One of the unconsolidated affiliates is a party to an interest rate swap agreement. We record our proportionate share of the change in value of the interest rate swap agreement in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to net income are recorded in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss). 
At any time prior to March 30, 2022, we may, at our option, redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. At any time on or after March 30, 2022, we may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at the redemption prices set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. In addition, at any time on or before March 30, 2022, we may redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.5% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net proceeds of one or more equity offerings.  
We evaluated the issuance of our Senior Notes and repayment of a portion of our Term B-3 Loan, in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification 470-50, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments, for modification and extinguishment accounting. We accounted for the refinancing as a debt modification with respect to amounts that remained obligations of the same lender with minor changes in cash flows and as a debt extinguishment with respect to amounts that were obligations of lenders which remained but experienced a change in cash flows of greater than 10%. As a result, we capitalized an aggregate of $6.1 million in financing costs during the six months ended June 30, 2019. Other costs incurred by us in connection with the Senior Notes, of $7.1 million, which did not meet the criteria for capitalization, are included in Loss on extinguishment of debt in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) during the six months ended June 30, 2019. 
The above fair values, which are Level 2 liabilities, were computed based on comparable quoted market prices. The fair values of cash, accounts receivable, net, short-term borrowings, and accounts payable approximate the carrying amounts due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. 


item2.txt
Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. Our revenues increased $252.2 million, or 28.2%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which partially included DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) and CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) in the second quarter of 2018 and Eze Software Group, LLC (“Eze”) and Intralinks Holdings, Inc. (“Intralinks”) in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $241.6 million in revenues. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenues increased due to increased term license revenues and increased demand for our fund administration services, with such increases partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business. The increase in revenues was partially offset by the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, which reduced revenues by $9.2 million. Software-enabled services revenues increased $221.1 million, or 29.8%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $236.2 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $7.3 million. License, maintenance and related revenues increased $31.1 million, or 20.2%, primarily due to increased term license revenues as well as the acquisitions, which added revenues of $5.4 million. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $1.8 million. 
Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. Our revenues increased $967.5 million, or 73.4%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which partially included DST and CACEIS in the second quarter of 2018 and Eze and Intralinks in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $945.0 million in revenues. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenues increased primarily due to an increase in term license revenues and increased demand for our fund administration services, with such increases partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business. The increase in revenues was partially offset by the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, which reduced revenues by $11.8 million. Software-enabled services revenues increased $898.3 million, or 86.7%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $904.8 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $8.6 million. License, maintenance and related revenues increased $69.2 million, or 24.6%, primarily due to increased term license revenues as well as the acquisitions, which added revenues of $40.2 million. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $3.3 million. 
Interest expense, net. We had net interest expense of $104.3 million and $205.9 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to $70.2 million and $95.6 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. The increase in interest expense, net for 2019 as compared to 2018 relates primarily to increased borrowings in connection with our acquisitions of DST, Eze and Intralinks and, to a lesser extent, higher average interest rates. These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 
Other income, net. We had other income, net of $33.9 million and $37.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, other income, net included investment gains of $29.5 million and $36.9 million, respectively. The remaining portion of other income, net consisted primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. We had other income, net of $0.6 million and $1.1 million for the three and six months ended June, 30, 2018, respectively. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, other income, net consisted primarily of net investment gains and dividend income on our investments offset by foreign currency transaction losses. 
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net. We had equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net of $2.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to $1.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. This is primarily related to our joint venture International Financial Data Services L.P. (“IFDS L.P.”) and represents our proportionate share of IFDS L.P.’s net income, offset by amortization of basis differences. 
Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock. We expect our cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and cash available under our Credit Agreement to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months. 
Client funds obligations represent our contractual obligations within the DST business to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by us. In addition, client funds obligations include transfer agency client balances invested overnight. Our contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client obligations are primarily sourced by funds held on behalf of clients. We had $1,026.7 million of client funds obligations at June 30, 2019. 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $416.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $201.9 million adjusted for non-cash items of $341.2 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $126.5 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, increases in contract assets, changes in income taxes prepaid and payable and decreases in deferred revenue, partially offset by decreases in prepaid expenses and other assets, decreases in accounts receivable and increases in accounts payable. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2019. The increase in contract assets was primarily due to new term license deals. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to a decrease in days’ sales outstanding. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets and the increase in accounts payable were primarily due to the timing of payments.  
Net cash provided by operating activities was $119.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from a net loss of $12.5 million adjusted for non-cash items of $215.7 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $83.5 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, accounts payable and by changes in income taxes prepaid and payable, partially offset by decreases in accounts receivable, contract assets and prepaid expenses and other assets. In total, cash provided by operating activities was negatively affected by one-time payments totaling $135.0 million related to the DST acquisition. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2018. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to an overall decrease in days’ sales outstanding. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to the timing of payments, particularly as a result of the mid-month acquisition of DST. The decrease in contract assets was primarily due to the adoption of ASC 606. 
We have made a permanent reinvestment determination in certain non-U.S. operations that have historically generated positive operating cash flows. At June 30, 2019, we held approximately $77.6 million in cash and cash equivalents at non-U.S. subsidiaries where we had made such a determination and in turn, no provision for foreign withholding, foreign local, or U.S. state income taxes had been made. At June 30, 2019, we held approximately $59.7 million in cash that was available to our foreign borrowers under our senior secured credit facility and will be used to facilitate debt servicing of those entities. 
The obligations of the U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of such persons (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations) and 65% of the capital stock of certain foreign restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations). All obligations of the non-U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our and the other guarantors’ assets (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of our wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (with customary exceptions and limitations). 
and acquisitions), merge, liquidate or dissolve, sell property and assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries, pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock, alter the business we conduct, amend, prepay, redeem or purchase subordinated debt, or engage in transactions with our affiliates.  The Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default, subject to customary thresholds and exceptions.  In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant for the benefit of the Revolving Credit Facility requiring us to maintain a minimum consolidated net secured leverage ratio. In addition, under the Credit Agreement, certain defaults under agreements governing other material indebtedness could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement, in which case the lenders could elect to accelerate payments under the Credit Agreement and terminate any commitments they have to provide future borrowings. 


item3.txt
We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients. The balances maintained in the bank accounts will fluctuate. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, we had average daily cash balances of approximately $2.3 billion maintained in such accounts. We estimate that a 100 basis point change in the interest earnings rate would equal approximately $9.3 million of net income on an annual basis. The effect of changes in interest rates attributable to earnings derived from cash balances we hold for clients is offset by changes in interest rates on our variable debt.  


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2019. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as  


