item1.txt
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets and lease payment obligations for our real estate office leases of $387.6 million and $417.8 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019.
As of March 31, 2019, $56.4 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Depreciation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $32.0 million and $6.8 million, respectively.
Our operating leases are included on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities.
An operating lease asset represents our right to use an underlying asset over the term of a lease while an operating lease liability represents our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date at the present value of the base minimum rent payments.
Operating lease assets are also recognized at the commencement date as the total operating lease liability plus prepaid rents and less any deferred rent liabilities that existed under ASC 840.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our estimated secured incremental borrowing rate based on the significant geographic regions in which we operate based on the information available at lease commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
We recognized operating lease expense of $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 related to these lease agreements.
Our total operating lease costs were $19.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Cash paid for amounts included in the present value of operating lease liabilities was $19.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and is included in operating cash flows.
Our weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rates as of March 31, 2019 were 8.5 years and 4.9%, respectively.
Total gross sublease and other rental income recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 was approximately $2.5 million.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we held certain investment assets and certain liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
These investments include money market funds, marketable equity securities and seed capital investments where fair value is determined using quoted prices in active markets.
Fair value for deferred compensation liabilities that are credited with deemed gains or losses of the underlying hypothetical investments, primarily equity securities, have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below.
Included in Cash and cash equivalents and Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Cash and cash equivalents and Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the fair value of our non-marketable equity securities was adjusted upward by $0.4 million.
Our investments in private equity funds were $100.7 million at March 31, 2019, of which $93.5 million were measured using net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and $7.2 million were accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
One of our investments in private equity funds as of March 31, 2019, representing 78% of the value of the private equity fund investments, was concentrated in one fund that is primarily invested in the energy sector and real estate.
Future capital commitments related to our other private equity fund investments were approximately $1.8 million as of March 31, 2019.
The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
We record our proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In addition, at any time on or before March 30, 2022, we may redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.5% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net proceeds of one or more equity offerings.
Other costs incurred by us in connection with the Senior Notes, of $7.1 million, which did not meet the criteria for capitalization, are included in Loss on extinguishment of debt in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Accordingly, as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately $37.5 million and $32.4 million, respectively, of deferred revenue is presented net within contract assets arising from the same contracts.
The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $99.9 million and $76.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of March 31, 2019, revenue of approximately $345.4 million is expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations for license, maintenance and related revenues, of which $229.8 million is expected to be recognized over the next twelve months.
Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share if the effect of including such common equivalent shares is anti-dilutive because their total assumed proceeds exceed the average fair value of common stock for the period.
Stock options and SARs representing 5.7 and 0.2 million shares were outstanding for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS because the effect of including them would be anti-dilutive.


item2.txt
Our revenues increased $715.3 million, or 169.5%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which included DST Systems, Inc.
Software-enabled services revenues increased $677.2 million, or 229.7%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $668.7 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers.
We had other income, net of $3.5 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, other income, net included investment gains and dividend income of $8.0 million.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, other income, net consisted primarily of foreign currency transaction losses.
We recorded a $7.1 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the three months ended March 31, 2019 in connection with the repayment of a portion of our Term Loans with the proceeds from the issuance of our Senior Notes.
Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock.
We expect our cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and cash available under our Credit Agreement to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock totaling $25.2 million in the aggregate.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of common stock totaling $14.5 million in the aggregate.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $137.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $80.8 million adjusted for non-cash items of $193.4 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $136.8 million.
The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, changes in income taxes prepaid and payable and increases in accounts receivable, partially offset by decreases in contract assets and prepaid expenses and other assets, as well as increases in deferred revenue and accounts payable.
The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Investing activities used net cash of $16.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily related to $16.4 million in capitalized software development costs and $16.3 million in capital expenditures, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $10.8 million, cash received of $3.2 million related to purchase price adjustments for prior acquisitions and the collection of other non-current receivables of $2.6 million.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $69.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $51.3 million adjusted for non-cash items of $64.3 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $45.7 million.
The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, accounts payable and deferred revenue and an increase in accounts receivable, partially offset by changes in contract assets and income taxes prepaid and payable.
Investing activities used net cash of $11.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily related to $7.2 million in capital expenditures and $3.9 million in capitalized software development costs as well as cash paid of $0.2 million related to purchase price adjustments for prior acquisitions.
Financing activities used net cash of $48.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, representing net repayments of debt totaling $61.3 million, $14.5 million in quarterly dividends paid and $2.1 million in withholding taxes paid related to equity award net share settlements, partially offset by proceeds of $29.1 million from stock option exercises.
At March 31, 2019, we held approximately $96.1 million in cash and cash equivalents at non-U.S. subsidiaries where we had made such a determination and in turn, no provision for foreign withholding, foreign local, or U.S. state income taxes had been made.
At March 31, 2019, we held approximately $82.5 million in cash that was available to our foreign borrowers under our senior secured credit facility and will be used to facilitate debt servicing of those entities.
The majority of the initial proceeds from the Initial Term Loans was used to fund the acquisition of DST, repay certain amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit agreement (“Prior Credit Agreement”), repay all of the outstanding principal amount of our 5.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (“Prior Senior Notes”) and repay acquired debt associated with DST.
The obligations of the U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of such persons (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations) and 65% of the capital stock of certain foreign restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations).
All obligations of the non-U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our and the other guarantors’ assets (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of our wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (with customary exceptions and limitations).
The Credit Agreement includes negative covenants that, among other things and subject to certain thresholds and exceptions, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to incur debt or liens, make investments (including in the form of loans and acquisitions), merge, liquidate or dissolve, sell property and assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries, pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock, alter the business we conduct, amend, prepay, redeem or purchase subordinated debt, or engage in transactions with our affiliates.
In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant for the benefit of the Revolving Credit Facility requiring us to maintain a minimum consolidated net secured leverage ratio.
In addition, at any time on or before March 30, 2022, we may to redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.5% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net proceeds of one or more equity offerings.
Under the Revolving Credit Facility portion of the Credit Agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain a specified financial ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter if the sum of (i) outstanding amount of all loans under the Revolving Credit Facility and (ii) all non-cash collateralized letters of credit issued under the Revolving Credit Facility in excess of $20 million is equal to or greater than 30% of the total commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Any default and subsequent acceleration of payments under the Credit Agreement would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.
Additionally, under the Credit Agreement, our ability to engage in activities such as incurring additional indebtedness, making investments and paying dividends is also tied to baskets and ratios based on Consolidated EBITDA.
Consolidated EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure used in key financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, which is the material facility supporting our capital structure and providing liquidity to our business.
Consolidated EBITDA does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as those terms are defined by generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and does not necessarily indicate whether cash flows will be sufficient to fund cash needs.
The following is a reconciliation of net income to Consolidated EBITDA as defined in our Credit Agreement.
Calculated as the ratio of consolidated net secured funded indebtedness, net of cash and cash equivalents, to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the Credit Agreement, for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date.
Consolidated net secured funded indebtedness is comprised of indebtedness for borrowed money, letters of credit, deferred purchase price obligations and capital lease obligations, all of which is secured by liens on our property.
As of March 31, 2019, $56.4 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.


item3.txt
We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, we had average daily cash balances of approximately $2.6 billion maintained in such accounts.
The effect of changes in interest rates attributable to earnings derived from cash balances we hold for clients is offset by changes in interest rates on our variable debt.
As of March 31, 2019, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in an increase in interest expense of approximately $61.8 million per year.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, approximately 27% of our revenues were from clients located outside the United States.
As a result of these transactions, we have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which we report in other income (expense).
The amount of these balances can fluctuate in the future as we bill customers and buy products or services in currencies other than our functional currency, which could increase our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates.
We continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange rates because of our acquisitions and changes in our operations.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2019.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2019, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.
There were no significant changes to our internal control over financial reporting due to the adoption of the new standard.


part2.txt
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Report.


