item1.txt
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets and lease payment obligations for our real estate office leases of $387.6 million and $417.8 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019.
As of June 30, 2019, $56.2 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Depreciation expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 was $31.1 million and $63.1 million, respectively.
Depreciation expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was $28.5 million and $35.3 million, respectively.
Our operating leases are included on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities.
Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date at the present value of the base minimum rent payments.
Operating lease assets are also recognized at the commencement date as the total operating lease liability adjusted for prepaid rents, deferred rent liabilities and lease fair value adjustments that existed under ASC 840.
We recognized operating lease expense of $0.7 million and $1.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, related to these lease agreements.
Our total operating lease costs were $19.8 million and $39.7 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
Cash paid for amounts included in operating lease liabilities was $18.6 million and $36.4 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and is included in operating cash flows.
Our weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rates as of June 30, 2019 were 8.4 years and 5.0%, respectively.
Total gross sublease and other rental income recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were approximately $2.2 million and $4.7 million, respectively.
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we held certain investment assets and certain liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
These investments include money market funds, marketable equity securities and seed capital investments where fair value is determined using quoted prices in active markets.
Fair value for deferred compensation liabilities that are credited with deemed gains or losses of the underlying hypothetical investments, primarily equity securities, have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below.
Included in Cash and cash equivalents and Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Cash and cash equivalents and Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, the fair value of our non-marketable equity securities was adjusted upward by $0.5 million.
Our investments in private equity funds were $126.4 million at June 30, 2019, of which $119.2 million were measured using net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and $7.2 million were accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
One of our investments in private equity funds as of June 30, 2019, represented 82% of the value of the private equity fund investment portfolio.
Future capital commitments related to our other private equity fund investments were approximately $1.8 million as of June 30, 2019.
The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
We record our proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to net income are recorded in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss).
Other costs incurred by us in connection with the Senior Notes, of $7.1 million, which did not meet the criteria for capitalization, are included in Loss on extinguishment of debt in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Accordingly, as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately $39.9 million and $32.4 million, respectively, of deferred revenue is presented net within contract assets arising from the same contracts.
The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $59.6 million and $146.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $54.4 million and $131.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
As of June 30, 2019, revenue of approximately $364.4 million is expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations for license, maintenance and related revenues, of which $208.7 million is expected to be recognized over the next twelve months.
The change in the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the respective prior year periods was primarily due to the acquisition of DST during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and the relative impact of permanent book to tax differences on reduced pre-tax book income in 2018 that occurred as a result.
Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share if the effect of including such common equivalent shares is anti-dilutive because their total assumed proceeds exceed the average fair value of common stock for the period.
Stock options and SARs representing 4.1 and 4.4 million shares were outstanding for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS because the effect of including them would be anti-dilutive.
No dilutive securities have been included in the diluted EPS calculation for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 due to our reported net loss for the three and six months then ended.


item2.txt
Our revenues increased $252.2 million, or 28.2%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which partially included DST Systems, Inc.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenues increased due to increased term license revenues and increased demand for our fund administration services, with such increases partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business.
Software-enabled services revenues increased $221.1 million, or 29.8%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $236.2 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers.
License, maintenance and related revenues increased $31.1 million, or 20.2%, primarily due to increased term license revenues as well as the acquisitions, which added revenues of $5.4 million.
Our revenues increased $967.5 million, or 73.4%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which partially included DST and CACEIS in the second quarter of 2018 and Eze and Intralinks in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $945.0 million in revenues.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenues increased primarily due to an increase in term license revenues and increased demand for our fund administration services, with such increases partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business.
Software-enabled services revenues increased $898.3 million, or 86.7%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $904.8 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers.
License, maintenance and related revenues increased $69.2 million, or 24.6%, primarily due to increased term license revenues as well as the acquisitions, which added revenues of $40.2 million.
The increase in interest expense, net for 2019 as compared to 2018 relates primarily to increased borrowings in connection with our acquisitions of DST, Eze and Intralinks and, to a lesser extent, higher average interest rates.
We had other income, net of $33.9 million and $37.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, other income, net included investment gains of $29.5 million and $36.9 million, respectively.
We had other income, net of $0.6 million and $1.1 million for the three and six months ended June, 30, 2018, respectively.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, other income, net consisted primarily of net investment gains and dividend income on our investments offset by foreign currency transaction losses.
Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock.
We expect our cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and cash available under our Credit Agreement to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $416.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $201.9 million adjusted for non-cash items of $341.2 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $126.5 million.
The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, increases in contract assets, changes in income taxes prepaid and payable and decreases in deferred revenue, partially offset by decreases in prepaid expenses and other assets, decreases in accounts receivable and increases in accounts payable.
The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets and the increase in accounts payable were primarily due to the timing of payments.
Investing activities used net cash of $26.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily related to $32.5 million in capitalized software development costs and $27.0 million in capital expenditures, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $22.5 million, the collection of other non-current receivables of $5.2 million, cash received of $3.2 million related to purchase price adjustments for prior acquisitions and $2.1 million in proceeds from unconsolidated affiliates.
The increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents is primarily due to proceeds received from our borrowings and common stock offering, the impact of restricted cash and cash equivalents held by DST as well cash provided by operations and proceeds from stock option exercises.
These increases were partially offset by cash used for acquisitions, repayments of debt, payment of dividends and capital expenditures.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $119.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from a net loss of $12.5 million adjusted for non-cash items of $215.7 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $83.5 million.
The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, accounts payable and by changes in income taxes prepaid and payable, partially offset by decreases in accounts receivable, contract assets and prepaid expenses and other assets.
In total, cash provided by operating activities was negatively affected by one-time payments totaling $135.0 million related to the DST acquisition.
The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to the timing of payments, particularly as a result of the mid-month acquisition of DST.
Investing activities used net cash of $4,648.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, primarily related to cash paid for business acquisitions (net of cash acquired) of $4,622.3 million, $22.4 million in capital expenditures, $16.5 million in capitalized software development costs and $4.3 million in investments in securities, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $11.7 million and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment of $4.7 million.
At June 30, 2019, we held approximately $59.7 million in cash that was available to our foreign borrowers under our senior secured credit facility and will be used to facilitate debt servicing of those entities.
The majority of the initial proceeds from the Initial Term Loans was used to fund our acquisition of DST, repay certain amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit agreement (“Prior Credit Agreement”), repay all of the outstanding principal amount of our 5.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (“Prior Senior Notes”) and repay acquired debt associated with DST.
Pursuant to the Commitment Increase Amendment, a new $875.0 million senior secured term B-5 facility (“Term B-5 Loan”, and together with the Initial Term Loans, the “Term Loans”) was made available to us, the proceeds of which were used to finance, in part, the Eze acquisition.
The obligations of the U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of such persons (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations) and 65% of the capital stock of certain foreign restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations).
All obligations of the non-U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our and the other guarantors’ assets (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of our wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (with customary exceptions and limitations).
In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant for the benefit of the Revolving Credit Facility requiring us to maintain a minimum consolidated net secured leverage ratio.
Under the Revolving Credit Facility portion of the Credit Agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain a specified financial ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter if the sum of (i) outstanding amount of all loans under the Revolving Credit Facility and (ii) all non-cash collateralized letters of credit issued under the Revolving Credit Facility in excess of $20 million is equal to or greater than 30% of the total commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Any default and subsequent acceleration of payments under the Credit Agreement would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.
Consolidated EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure used in key financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, which is the material facility supporting our capital structure and providing liquidity to our business.
Consolidated EBITDA does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as those terms are defined by generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and does not necessarily indicate whether cash flows will be sufficient to fund cash needs.
Consolidated EBITDA excludes expenses and income that are permitted to be excluded per the terms of our Credit Agreement, but which others may believe are normal expenses for the operation of a business.
The following is a reconciliation of net income to Consolidated EBITDA as defined in our Credit Agreement.
Calculated as the ratio of consolidated net secured funded indebtedness, net of cash and cash equivalents, to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the Credit Agreement, for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date.
Consolidated net secured funded indebtedness is comprised of indebtedness for borrowed money, letters of credit, deferred purchase price obligations and capital lease obligations, all of which is secured by liens on our property.


item3.txt
We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019, we had average daily cash balances of approximately $2.3 billion maintained in such accounts.
The effect of changes in interest rates attributable to earnings derived from cash balances we hold for clients is offset by changes in interest rates on our variable debt.
As a result of these transactions, we have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which we report in other income (expense).


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2019.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
There were no significant changes to our internal control over financial reporting due to the adoption of the new standard.


part2.txt
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Report.
Filed herewith.


