item1.txt
The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-15 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements was to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows from financing activities within the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-15 as of January 1, 2018, which resulted in the Company presenting fees paid for debt extinguishment as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods shown.
ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments, except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, that have readily determinable fair values to be measured at fair value with any changes in fair value recognized in net income.
Equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values may be measured at estimated fair value or cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes, with changes in the carrying value recognized in net income.
The equity method of accounting is used for investments in entities, partnerships and similar interests (including investments in private equity funds where the Company is the limited partner and holds a greater than 5% partnership interest in the fund) in which the Company has significant influence but does not control.
Under the equity method, the Company recognizes income or losses from its pro-rata share of these unconsolidated affiliates’ net income or loss, which changes the carrying value of the investment of the unconsolidated affiliate.
The Company measures equity investments in marketable securities, seed capital investments and other investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee, at fair value, with changes in the fair value recognized in earnings.
The Company uses net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Investments in non-marketable equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values and do not qualify for the practical expedient to measure the investment using a net asset value per share are recorded using the measurement alternative in ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
The Company has certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity method of accounting in which the Company’s carrying value exceeds the proportionate share of net assets of the unconsolidated affiliate.
The Company records its proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive (Loss) Income.
The Company recognizes all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet and measures those instruments at fair value and the changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive (loss) income, depending on whether a derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction.
At June 30, 2018, the Company had derivative instruments outstanding as described in Note 7, “Hedging Transactions and Derivative Financial Instruments.” The Company includes cash flows related to derivative instruments qualifying for hedge accounting and economic hedges in the same category as the item being hedged in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
(“DST”), as described in Note 11, “Acquisitions.” Transaction expenses consist primarily of certain costs associated with the amendment and restatement of the Company’s Credit Agreement, as described in Note 4, “Debt”, investment banker advisory fees, legal fees, and third-party valuation and other fees.
Under ASC 606, the Company is required to recognize term license revenues upon the transfer of the license and recognize the associated maintenance revenues over the contract period, as opposed to the Company’s prior practice of recognizing both the term license and maintenance revenues ratably over the contract period.
In addition, the Company is required to capitalize and amortize incremental costs of obtaining a contract, such as certain sales commission costs, over the expected customer relationship period if the Company expects to recover those costs.
The Company recorded an increase to retained earnings of $65.8 million, or $47.9 million net of tax, as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to the Company’s term license revenues.
The Company primarily offers software-enabled outsourcing services in which the Company utilizes its own software to offer comprehensive fund administration services for alternative investment managers, including fund manager services, transfer agency services, funds-of-funds services, tax processing and accounting.
The Company generates revenues in the form of software license fees and related maintenance and services fees.
Under ASC 606, the Company identifies a contract with a customer, identifies the performance obligations in the contract, determines the transaction price, allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract and recognizes revenues when (or as) the Company satisfies a performance obligation.
Term license fees are typically due in annual installments at the beginning of each annual period and the Company records a contract asset for amounts recognized as revenue in excess of amounts billed.
The Company recognizes revenues from maintenance ratably over the term of the underlying maintenance contract term because the Company transfers control evenly by providing a stand-ready service.
The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price out of total consideration of the contract.
The Company accounts for the license and professional service fees under these agreements as a single performance obligation, recognized over time using an input method during the development of the license.
For the Company’s software-enabled services contracts which are cancelable with 90 days’ notice or meet the allocation objective for series performance obligations under ASC 606, the Company uses the practical expedient applicable to such contracts and has not disclosed the transaction price for the remaining performance obligations as of the end of each reporting period or when the Company expects to recognize this revenue.
The majority of the initial proceeds from the Term Loans was used to satisfy the consideration required to fund the acquisition of DST, repay certain amounts outstanding under the Company’s then-existing credit agreement (“Prior Credit Agreement”), repay all of the outstanding principal amount of the Company’s 5.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (“Senior Notes”) and to repay acquired debt associated with DST.
All obligations of the non-U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the Company’s and the other guarantors’ assets (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of the Company’s wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (with customary exceptions and limitations).
In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant for the benefit of the Revolving Credit Facility requiring the Company to maintain a minimum consolidated net secured leverage ratio.
In connection with the Credit Agreement, the Company capitalized an aggregate of $37.5 million in financing costs during the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Other costs incurred by the Company in connection with the Credit Agreement, which did not meet the criteria for capitalization, are included in Transaction expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive (Loss) Income.
The Company recorded a $44.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt in connection with the entry into the Credit Agreement and redemption of the Senior Notes.
As of June 30, 2018, investments in unconsolidated affiliates were $262.5 million, which includes fair value adjustments that exceed the Company’s proportionate share of the unconsolidated affiliates’ net assets by $169.0 million.
The Company records its proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive (Loss) Income.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company held certain investment assets and certain liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
These investments include money market funds, marketable equity securities and seed capital investments where fair value is determined using quoted prices in active markets.
Investments for which the Company elected net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and investments measured using the fair value measurement alternative are excluded from the table below.
The Company has foreign currency derivative instruments that are required to be reported at fair value.
The Company has not become aware of any information indicative of fair value impairments or adjustments to the carrying value of its non-marketable equity securities as of June 30, 2018.
The Company has partnership interests in various private equity funds that are not included in the table above.
The Company’s investments in private equity funds were $119.6 million at June 30, 2018, of which $112.0 million were measured using net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and $7.6 million were accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
One of the Company’s investments in private equity funds as of June 30, 2018, representing 77% of the value of the private equity fund investments, was concentrated in one fund which is primarily invested in the energy sector.
The Company expects to receive distributions from this fund upon liquidation of the underlying investments over the next several years.
Future capital commitments related to the Company’s other private equity fund investments were approximately $2.0 million as of June 30, 2018.
Generally, the Company’s investments in private equity funds are non-transferable or are subject to long holding periods, and withdrawals from the private equity firm partnerships are typically not permitted.
In 2018, the Company paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of common stock on March 15, 2018 and June 15, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2018 and June 1, 2018, respectively, totaling $31.4 million in the aggregate.
In 2017, the Company paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0625 per share of common stock on March 15, 2017 and June 15, 2017 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2017 and June 1, 2017, respectively, totaling $25.5 million in the aggregate.
The offering included 30,262,250 newly issued shares of common stock sold by the Company (including 3,947,250 shares of common stock sold pursuant to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at an offering price to the public of $47.50 per share for which the Company received total net proceeds of approximately $1.4 billion.
The net assets and results of operations of DST have been included in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements from April 16, 2018.
The fair value of investments in marketable equity securities and seed capital investments were determined using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets.
The fair value of investment in partnerships interests in private equity funds was primarily determined using the net asset value of the fund.
The net assets and results of operations of CACEIS have been included in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements from June 1, 2018.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded severance expense of approximately $54.3 million related to a reduction in headcount in connection with the integration efforts associated with the acquisition of DST.


item2.txt
We record its proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive (Loss) Income.
In connection with this acquisition, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) pursuant to which we borrowed an aggregate of approximately $7.4 billion (approximately $524.5 million of which was rolled over from our existing credit facility).
In addition, the Credit Agreement includes a revolving credit facility of $250.0 million, of which $241.2 million was available as of June 30, 2018.
The net assets and results of operations of DST are included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements from April 16, 2018.
License, maintenance and related revenues increased $11.6 million, or 4.3%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $20.0 million, partially offset by lower demand for professional services.
The increase in total operating expenses in 2018 was primarily due to our acquisitions, which added expenses of $234.8 million and $235.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Transaction expenses of $91.1 million and $94.5 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, consist of certain costs associated with our Credit Agreement, investment banker advisory fees, legal and other professional fees associated with the acquisition of DST as discussed in the Notes to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”.
We had equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net of $1.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
We recorded a $44.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 in connection with the amendment and restatement of our credit agreement.
The loss on extinguishment of debt includes the write-off of a portion of the unamortized capitalized financing fees and unamortized original issue discount related to the Prior Credit Agreement and Senior Notes for amounts accounted for as a debt extinguishment and a make-whole premium paid in connection with the redemption of the Senior Notes.
We recorded a $2.3 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the six months ended June 30, 2017 in connection with the amendment of our Prior Credit Agreement.
Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock.
We expect our cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and cash available under our Credit Agreement to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months.
We funded the acquisition and refinancing of existing debt with $7.4 billion of debt financing (of which approximately $524.5 million was rolled over from our Prior Credit Agreement) and a portion of the net proceeds from the issuance and sale of approximately $1.4 billion of our common stock.
In 2018, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of common stock on March 15, 2018 and June 15, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2018 and June 1, 2018, respectively, totaling $31.4 million in the aggregate.
In 2017, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0625 per share of common stock on March 15, 2017 and June 15, 2017 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2017 and June 1, 2017, respectively, totaling $25.5 million in the aggregate.
These increases were partially offset by cash used for acquisitions, repayments of debt, payment of dividends and capital expenditures.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $119.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net losses of $12.5 million adjusted for non-cash items of $215.7 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $83.5 million.
In total, cash provided by operating activities was negatively affected by one-time payments totaling $135.0 million related to the DST acquisition.
The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to the timing of payments, particularly as a result of the mid-month acquisition of DST.
Investing activities used net cash of $4,648.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, primarily related to cash paid for business acquisitions (net of cash acquired) of $4,622.3 million, $22.4 million in capital expenditures, $16.5 million in capitalized software development costs and $4.3 million in investments in securities, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $11.7 million and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment of $4.7 million.
The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash is primarily due to net repayments of debt, payment of dividends and capital expenditures.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $195.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017.
Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $99.3 million adjusted for non-cash items of $134.3 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $38.4 million.
Investing activities used net cash of $23.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, primarily related to $19.4 million in capital expenditures and $5.6 million in capitalized software costs partially offset by cash received of $1.8 million related to purchase price adjustments for prior acquisitions.
At June 30, 2018, we held approximately $49.9 million in cash that was available to our foreign borrowers under our senior secured credit facility and will be used to facilitate debt servicing of those entities.
The majority of the initial proceeds from the Term Loans was used to satisfy the consideration required to fund the acquisition of DST, repay certain amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit agreement (“Prior Credit Agreement”), repay all of the outstanding principal amount of our 5.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (“Senior Notes”) and repay acquired debt associated with DST.
The Credit Agreement includes negative covenants that, among other things and subject to certain thresholds and exceptions, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to incur debt or liens, make investments (including in the form of loans and acquisitions), merge, liquidate or dissolve, sell property and assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries, pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock, alter the business we conduct, amend, prepay, redeem or purchase subordinated debt, or engage in transactions with our affiliates.
In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant for the benefit of the Revolving Credit Facility requiring us to maintain a minimum consolidated net secured leverage ratio.
Under the Revolving Credit Facility portion of the Credit Agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain a specified financial ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter if the outstanding amount of all loans under the Revolving Credit Facility and all non-cash collateralized letters of credit issued under the Revolving Credit Facility in excess of $20 million is equal to or greater than 30% of the total commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Any default and subsequent acceleration of payments under the Credit Agreement would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.
Consolidated EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure used in key financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, which is the material facility supporting our capital structure and providing liquidity to our business.
The impact of our adoption of ASU 2016-15 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements was to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows from financing activities within our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
We adopted ASU 2016-15 as of January 1, 2018, which resulted in presenting fees paid for debt extinguishment as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods shown.
The impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements will be to recognize the majority of our operating lease commitments as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will result in a material increase in the assets and liabilities recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.


item3.txt
We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients.
We estimate that a 100 basis point change in the interest earnings rate would equal approximately $8.7 million of net (loss) income on an annual basis.
The effect of changes in interest rates attributable to earnings derived from cash balances we hold for clients is partially offset by changes in interest rates on our variable debt.


part2.txt
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.


