fls.txt



item1.txt
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments.
Select adjusted unaudited financial statement information, which reflects our adoption of ASU 2014-09 is set forth below.
In general, when we are the principal in a transaction based on the factors identified in ASC 606-10-55-36 through 55-40, we record the revenue and related costs on a gross basis.
The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis.
We designated the July 2017 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract.
Changes in the fair value measurements of the derivative instruments and the related income tax expense or benefit are reflected as adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the actual hedged expense is incurred or until the hedge is terminated at which point the unrealized gain (loss) is reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to current earnings.
For lessors, the standard modifies the classification criteria and the accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
The decrease in deferred revenue during the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to less billings for recurring revenue contracts.
These non-recurring fair value measurements, primarily for intangible assets acquired, are based on Level 3 unobservable inputs.
In the event of an impairment, we determine the fair value of the goodwill and intangible assets using a discounted cash flow approach, which contains significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, is considered a Level 3 fair value measurement.


item2.txt
Donors funding scholarships, for example, will now have improved visibility given the integration with our digital marketing solutions.
Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter.
On April 30, 2018, we acquired Reeher for $43.0 million, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the securities purchase agreement.
Deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to less billings for recurring revenue contracts.
At March 31, 2018, our available borrowing capacity under the 2017 Credit Facility was $222.0 million.
In February 2018, our Board of Directors approved our annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share to be made in quarterly payments.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.
The level of acquisition activity varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting as well as employee exercise decisions.
We will continue monitoring such exposure and take action as appropriate.
To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue.
This saves our customers time through automation, and provides them with a more robust set of tools to better enable their organizations for success.
These workspaces are also more centrally located for our employees and closer to our customers and prospects.
The level of acquisition activity varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting as well as employee exercise decisions.
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and deliver improved profitability.
The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act.
We have drawn on our credit facility from time to time to help us meet financial needs, such as financing for business acquisitions.
On an ongoing basis, we reconsider and evaluate our estimates and assumptions.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



