fls.txt
Forward-looking statements represent our management's beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheet but recognize expenses in the income statement in a manner similar to previous guidance.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Litigation is inherently unpredictable.
The notional value of the February 2018 Swap Agreement was $50.0 million with an effective date beginning in February 2018 through June 2021.
We compute basic earnings per share by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Lease expense for lease payments related to our operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The notional value of the February 2018 Swap Agreement was $50.0 million with an effective date beginning in February 2018 through June 2021.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Diluted earnings per share reflect the assumed exercise, settlement and vesting of all dilutive securities using the “treasury stock method” except when the effect is anti-dilutive.
Total rent expense as determined under ASC 840 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was $5.5 million and $9.9 million, respectively.
In June 2019, we entered into an additional interest rate swap agreement (the "June 2019 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under the 2017 Credit Facility to a fixed rate for the term of the June 2019 Swap Agreement.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of less than 1 year to 19 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 5 years.


item2.txt
On July 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a third quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on September 13, 2019 to stockholders of record on August 28, 2019.
We also continue to rapidly advance our existing applications and bring new solutions to market, enabling our sales teams to sell more.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
We generally invoice our customers with recurring revenue contracts in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term.
To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates.
During the second quarter of 2019, we continued to progress in the U.S. rollout of Blackbaud Peer-to-Peer Fundraising, powered by JustGiving.
Income from operations decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018.
One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, as well as revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, fees from user conferences and third-party software referral fees.
We're excited about the opportunity to disrupt the market landscape by providing this peer-to-peer solution, which is fully integrated across our portfolio of best-in-class cloud solutions.
Deferred revenue from one-time services and other increased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to a seasonal increase in advance registration billings associated with our bbcon user conference, which occurs each year in October.
We used $23.2 million for software development costs, which was up $6.8 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs of $3.3 million and $6.3 million, respectively, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above as an increasing portion of our resources are now providing subscription-based retained services as opposed to one-time.
Our revenue from payment services has historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving.
Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter.
Deferred revenue from one-time services and other increased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to a seasonal increase in advance registration billings associated with our bbcon user conference, which occurs each year in October.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



