fls.txt



item1.txt
The estimated goodwill recognized is attributable primarily to the opportunities for expected synergies from combining the operations and assembled workforce of Reeher.
Revenue for all consulting services is recognized over time as the services are performed.
Our Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy, which provides for the distribution to stockholders of a portion of cash generated by us that is in excess of operational needs and capital expenditures.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.
Standalone selling prices of our solutions and services are typically estimated based on observable transactions when the solutions or services are sold on a standalone basis.
As a result of the acquisition, Reeher has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours.
Revenue for all consulting services is recognized over time as the services are performed.
Fixed price consulting engagements are generally billed as milestones towards completion are reached.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
The notional value of the July 2017 Swap Agreement was $150.0 million with an effective date beginning in July 2017 through July 2021.


item2.txt
The amount of taxes paid by us on the behalf of employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting, employee exercise decisions, as well as the market price for shares of our common stock at the time of settlement.
In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytics, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we used net cash of $45.3 million, primarily for our acquisition of Reeher, while we made a similar investment during the same period in 2017 with our acquisition of AcademicWorks.
Advertising and marketing costs increased as a result of our inclusion of JustGiving.
Most of our equity awards currently vest in our first quarter.
The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily driven by development activities related to our cloud-based solutions as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.
We continue to innovate and acquire solutions that create value for our customers, such as our new Cloud Solutions for Faith Communities and Higher Education and the Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits with Microsoft, as discussed above.
As a result of this guidance, the Company finalized its calculations of the Section 162(m) deduction and the ending estimated deferred tax assets for the performance-based stock compensation and the bonus accrual, which resulted in an insignificant impact to our effective income tax rate.
Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter.
The increases in commission expense were primarily driven by increases in commissionable sales.
The increases in recurring revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $26.4 million and $84.2 million, respectively.
As part of this initiative, we announced our first jointly-developed solution suite called Nonprofit Resource Management™, which is a breakthrough in helping nonprofits effectively source, track, distribute, and measure the impact of their resources across core business processes from managing the distribution of material goods to financial and human capital distribution.
On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Our cash flow from financing is negatively impacted in our first quarter when most of our equity awards vest, as we pay taxes on behalf of our employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



