fls.txt
Forward-looking statements consist of, among other things, trend analyses, statements regarding future events, future financial performance, our anticipated growth, the effect of general economic and market conditions, our business strategy and our plan to build and grow our business, our operating results, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on our financial results, the impact of expensing stock-based compensation, the sufficiency of our capital resources, our ability to meet our ongoing debt and obligations as they become due, and potential litigation involving us, all of which are based on current expectations, estimates, and forecasts, and the beliefs and assumptions of our management.


item1.txt
In certain cases, these arrangements require a minimum annual purchase commitment by us.
We believe the carrying amount of our debt approximates its fair value at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, as the debt bears interest rates that approximate market value.
In July 2017, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement (the "July 2017 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under the 2017 Credit Facility to a fixed rate for the term of the July 2017 Swap Agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
We have not identified any losses and, accordingly, we have not recorded a liability related to these indemnifications.
In May 2016, we entered into a lease agreement for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina.
We continue to lease our former headquarters facility, now called our Customer Operations Center, in Charleston, South Carolina.
As of September 30, 2019, approximately $785 million of revenue is expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations.
The way in which entities classify leases determines how to recognize lease-related revenue and expense.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we recorded insignificant measurement period adjustments to the estimated fair value of the YourCause assets acquired and liabilities assumed following the receipt of new information.


item2.txt
The 2017 Credit Facility matures in June 2022.
Within just one year of announcing plans for Blackbaud Church Management, we now serve churches in more than half of the 50 U.S. states, representing congregations of all different sizes and spanning more than 10 denominations.
in the near-term as we make investments in innovation, quality and the integration of our solutions, which we believe will drive long-term revenue growth.
We have spent the last several years organizing for scale and laying the foundation for our salespeople to be more successful.
fair value, which resulted in lower recorded deferred revenue as of the acquisition date than the actual amounts paid in advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements.
The amount of taxes paid by us on the behalf of employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting, employee exercise decisions, as well as the market price for shares of our common stock at the time of settlement.
The customers we serve require vertical specific business solutions to automate their operations.
For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP.
At September 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were $29.1 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $503.1 million.
We generally invoice our customers with recurring revenue contracts in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term.
We will continue monitoring such exposure and take action as appropriate.
The impacts of adoption are reflected in the financial information herein.
The total liability for uncertain tax positions as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, was $4.2 million and $3.7 million, respectively.
These restructuring activities are currently expected to result in improved operating efficiencies and future annual before-tax savings of between $5.0 million and $6.0 million beginning in 2020.
To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue.
On October 28, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a fourth quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on December 13, 2019 to stockholders of record on November 27, 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



