fls.txt
Forward-looking statements consist of, among other things, trend analyses, statements regarding future events, future financial performance, our anticipated growth, the effect of general economic and market conditions, our business strategy and our plan to build and grow our business, our operating results, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on our financial results, the impact of expensing stock-based compensation, the sufficiency of our capital resources, our ability to meet our ongoing debt and obligations as they become due, and potential litigation involving us, all of which are based on current expectations, estimates, and forecasts, and the beliefs and assumptions of our management.


item1.txt
On April 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a second quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on June 14, 2019 to stockholders of record on May 28, 2019.
We do not have lease agreements with residual value guarantees, sale leaseback terms or material restrictive covenants.
We designated the July 2017 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract.
See additional details below.
In February 2018, we entered into an additional interest rate swap agreement (the "February 2018 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under our credit facility to a fixed rate for the term of the February 2018 Swap Agreement.
On April 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a second quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on June 14, 2019 to stockholders of record on May 28, 2019.
We designated the July 2017 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract.
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
We also have a lease for office space in Austin, Texas which expires in September 2023 and has two five-year renewal options.
The estimated goodwill recognized is attributable primarily to the opportunities for expected synergies from combining the operations and assembled workforce of YourCause.
The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations for interim reporting of the SEC.


item2.txt
We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue.
Our cash flow from financing is negatively impacted in our first quarter when most of our equity awards vest, as we pay taxes on behalf of our employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards.
The increase in compensation costs was primarily related to stock-based compensation and our acquisition of YourCause.
We continue to make investments to deliver integrated and open solutions in the cloud, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments
We continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy.
Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our U.S. or U.K. entities.
As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.
The increase in recurring revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $21.8 million.
In addition, during the three months ended March 31, 2019, we paid dividends of $5.9 million, which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2018.
We spent much of 2018 working to simplify our program and refine our methodology and approach in a uniform way to better enable our salespeople with process and practice.
As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.
Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter.
We continue to progress in our early adopter program for our new Cloud Solution for Faith Communities with our first wave of early adopter customers now live on our Church Management Solution using it to run their day-to-day operations in close collaboration with our product teams.
The exclusion of the prior period revenue is to present the results of the divested businesses within the results of the combined company for the same period of time in both the prior and current periods.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



