fls.txt



item1.txt
We compute basic earnings per share by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
The estimated goodwill recognized is attributable primarily to the opportunities for expected synergies from combining the operations and assembled workforce of Reeher.
On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
The estimated fair values of the intangible assets were based on variations of the income approach, which estimates fair value based upon the present value of cash flows that the assets are expected to generate, and which included the relief-from-royalty method, incremental cash flow method, including the comparative (with and without) method and multi-period excess earnings method, depending on the intangible asset being valued.
For lessors, the standard modifies the classification criteria and the accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases.
Contract assets increased during the six months ended June 30, 2018 primarily as a result of incremental revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
The purchase price and related expenses were funded primarily through borrowings under the 2017 Credit Facility (as defined below).
The following table provides information with respect to quarterly dividends of $0.12 per share paid on common stock during the six months ended June 30, 2018.


item2.txt
We expect the general release of Blackbaud Church Management in mid-2019.
For the twelve months ended June 30, 2018, approximately 93% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained.
On July 30, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a third quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on September 14, 2018 to stockholders of record on August 28, 2018.
The impacts of adoption are reflected in the financial information herein.
Also contributing to the increases in interest expense during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were modest increases in our weighted average effective interest rates.
In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytic, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services.
The increases in general and administrative expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.1 million and $5.2 million, respectively, third-party contractor expenses of $1.8 million and $2.3 million, respectively, and acquisition-related integration costs of $2.2 million and $2.4 million, respectively.
These costs are deferred and then amortized in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit, which we have determined to be five years.
The 2017 Credit Facility matures in June 2022.
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates.
One-time services and other gross margin decreased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, as the declines in higher margin analytics and license fees revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy outpaced the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above.
The contracts entered into by the U.S. entity are almost always denominated in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, and contracts entered into by our U.K., Australian and Irish subsidiaries are generally denominated in British Pounds, Australian dollars and Euros, respectively.
On July 30, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a third quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on September 14, 2018 to stockholders of record on August 28, 2018.
We paid $25.2 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement or exercise of equity awards during the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to $16.6 million during the same period in 2017.
During the second quarter of 2018, we acquired Reeher, expanding our fundraising performance management capabilities with the intent to drive more effective fundraising and greater social good outcomes for our customers.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



