fls.txt
The Company evaluates the profitability of each tax-paying component on a historic cumulative basis and a forward-looking basis in the course of performing this analysis.


item1.txt
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The discussion in the notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted, relate solely to the Company's continuing operations.
Please refer to Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” for further information.
Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they occur and become known.
of Operations.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.1 million and $2.0 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, Disclosure Framework — Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, which amends ASC 715 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
about plan assets to be returned to the entity, and the effects of a one-percentage-point change on the assumed health care costs and the effect of this change in rates on service cost, interest cost, and the benefit obligation for postretirement health care benefits.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model which applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.


item2.txt
·    Overview.
·    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.
This section discusses accounting policies and estimates that require us to exercise subjective or complex judgments in their application.
You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Such factors include the Risk Factors which are set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, or the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and which are incorporated herein by reference.
Any additional precautionary statements made in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10‑K should be read as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements whenever they appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q to "we", "us", "our" and "the Company" refer to Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Our offerings include automated ultra-cold storage freezers, consumable sample storage containers, instruments which assist in the workflow of sample management, on-site and off-site full sample management services, gene sequencing services and gene synthesis services.


item3.txt
Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in the short-term LIBOR rate, the federal funds effective rate and the prime rate.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are subject to various legal proceedings, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.


