fls.txt
The Company evaluated all positive and negative evidence in concluding it was appropriate to release the majority of the valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during fiscal year 2018.


item1.txt
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The discussion in the notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted, relate solely to the Company's continuing operations.
Please refer to Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” for further information.
GENEWIZ was acquired during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and therefore the misclassifiation did not impact any other historical periods.
Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they occur and become known.
In March 2019, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2019-01 “Leases (Topic 842) - Codification Improvements”, which makes targeted changes to lessor accounting and clarifies interim transition disclosure requirements.
The ASU clarifies that companies are exempt from making the interim period transition disclosures required by ASC 250, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, for the period in which a change in accounting principle is made as a result of adopting ASC 842.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, Disclosure Framework — Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, which amends ASC 715 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
The amendment removes disclosure requirement for accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized over the next year, information about plan assets to be returned to the entity, and the effects of a one-percentage-point change on the assumed health care costs and the effect of this change in rates on service cost, interest cost, and the benefit obligation for postretirement health care benefits.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model which applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts have not been restated and continue to be reported in accordance with the governing revenue recognition standards applicable to that period.
Upon the adoption of ASC 606, the Company is no longer required to defer revenue in accordance with billing constraints defined in the contract with the customer.


item2.txt
·    Overview.
·    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.
This section discusses accounting policies and estimates that require us to exercise subjective or complex judgments in their application.
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended March 31, 2018.
You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Such factors include the Risk Factors which are set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, or the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and which are incorporated herein by reference.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q to "we", "us", "our" and "the Company" refer to Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In the life sciences sample-based services market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.


item3.txt
Our term loans bear variable interest rates which subject us to interest rate risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt



