fls.txt
The Company evaluates the profitability of each tax-paying component on a historic cumulative basis and a forward-looking basis while performing this analysis.


item1.txt
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”).
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
The discussion in the notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted, relate solely to the Company's continuing operations.
Please refer to Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” for further information.
On July 1, 2019, the Company completed the Disposition for $675.0 million, subject to adjustments for working capital and other items.
In connection with the closing the Company entered into Amendment No.
2 to the Asset Purchase Agreement with the purchaser.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company has revised its accounts payable balance on a continuing operations basis to exclude accounts payable related to the semiconductor cryogenics business and revised its current liabilities held for sale balance to include accounts payable related to the semiconductor cryogenics business on its Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company will also revise these balances in previously reported historical periods in the event those periods are presented in future filings.
GENEWIZ was acquired during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and therefore the misclassification did not impact any other historical periods.
Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they occur and become known.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
The amendments in ASU 2019-05 allow entities to elect the fair value option on certain financial instruments.
Entities are required to make this election on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
ASU 2019-05’s amendments should be applied “on a modified-retrospective basis by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the statement of financial position as of the date that an entity adopted the amendments in ASU 2016-13.” Certain disclosures are required.
In April 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-04, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments, which makes targeted changes to standards on credit losses, hedging, and recognizing and measuring financial instruments to clarify them and address implementation issues.
The amendments clarify the scope of the credit losses standard and address issues related to accrued interest receivable balances, recoveries, variable interest rates and prepayments, among other things.
On recognizing and measuring financial instruments, the amendments address the scope of the guidance, the requirement for remeasurement under ASC 820 when using the measurement alternative, certain disclosure requirements and which equity securities have to be remeasured at historical exchange rates.


item2.txt
This section discusses accounting policies and estimates that require us to exercise subjective or complex judgments in their application.
You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to "we", "us", "our" and "the Company" refer to Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In the life sciences sample-based services market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.
Over the past several years, we have acquired and developed essential capabilities required to strategically address the sample management needs across multiple end markets within the life sciences industry.
In October 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited, or 4titude, a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications.
In April 2018, we acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation, a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
The acquisition has expanded customer relationships and geographic reach within our growing sample management storage services business.


item3.txt
Our term loans bear variable interest rates which subject us to interest rate risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt



