fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2017 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they occur and become known.
Most of these transactions or balances are denominated in Euros, British Pounds and a variety of Asian currencies.
The Company enters into foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to currency fluctuations.
The forward contract arrangements that the Company enters into, typically mature in three months or less.
These transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
In March 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2018-02, Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present the assets at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.


item2.txt
·    Overview.
·    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.
This section discusses accounting policies and estimates that require us to exercise subjective or complex judgments in their application.
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017.
You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes beginning on page 3 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
anticipated or unanticipated events.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q to "we", "us", "our" and "the Company" refer to Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
We are a leading global provider of automation and cryogenic solutions for multiple applications and markets.
Our leadership position and global support structure in each of these markets makes us a valued business partner to some of the world’s largest semiconductor capital equipment and device makers as well as pharmaceutical and life science companies and research institutions in the world.
In the life sciences sample management market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.
Over the past several years, we have acquired and developed essential capabilities required to strategically address the sample management needs across multiple end markets within the life sciences industry.


item3.txt
Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in the short-term LIBOR rate, the federal funds effective rate and the prime rate.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings or in certain instances provide reasonable ranges of potential losses.


