Item 1
PART I.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INCOME STATEMENTS
Refer to accompanying notes.
PART I
Item 1
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENTS
Refer to accompanying notes.
Refer to Note 18 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) for further information.
PART I
Item 1
BALANCE SHEETS
Refer to accompanying notes.
PART I
Item 1
CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS
Refer to accompanying notes.
PART I
Item 1
STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENTS
Refer to accompanying notes.
PART I
Item 1
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1 — ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Accounting Principles
Our unaudited interim consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments of a normal recurring nature that are necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the interim periods presented.
Interim results are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year.
The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with information included in the Microsoft Corporation 2017 Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 2, 2017.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries.
Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.
Equity investments for which we are able to exercise significant influence over but do not control the investee and are not the primary beneficiary of the investee’s activities are accounted for using the equity method.
Investments for which we are not able to exercise significant influence over the investee and which do not have readily determinable fair values are accounted for under the cost method.
Estimates and Assumptions
Revenue
Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue
Product revenue includes sales from operating systems; cross-device productivity applications; server applications; business solution applications; desktop and server management tools; software development tools; video games; and hardware such as PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories.
Service and other revenue includes sales from cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content such as Microsoft Office 365, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Dynamics 365, and Xbox Live; solution support; and consulting services.
Service and other revenue also includes sales from online advertising and LinkedIn.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
PART I
Item 1
Nature of Products and Services
Licenses for on-premises software provide the customer with a right to use the software as it exists when made available to the customer.
Customers may purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses, which provide customers with the same functionality and differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software.
Revenue from distinct on-premises licenses is recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer.
In cases where we allocate revenue to software updates, primarily because the updates are provided at no additional charge, revenue is recognized as the updates are provided, which is generally ratably over the estimated life of the related device or license.
Certain volume licensing programs, including Enterprise Agreements, include on-premises licenses combined with Software Assurance (“SA”).
SA conveys rights to new software and upgrades released over the contract period and provides support, tools, and training to help customers deploy and use products more efficiently.
On-premises licenses are considered distinct performance obligations when sold with SA.
Revenue allocated to SA is generally recognized ratably over the contract period as customers simultaneously consume and receive benefits, given that SA comprises distinct performance obligations that are satisfied over time.
Cloud services, which allow customers to use hosted software over the contract period without taking possession of the software, are provided on either a subscription or consumption basis.
Revenue related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis is recognized ratably over the contract period.
Revenue related to cloud services provided on a consumption basis, such as the amount of storage used in a period, is recognized based on the customer utilization of such resources.
When cloud services require a significant level of integration and interdependency with software and the individual components are not considered distinct, all revenue is recognized over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
Revenue from search advertising is recognized when the advertisement appears in the search results or when the action necessary to earn the revenue has been completed.
Revenue from consulting services is recognized as services are provided.
Our hardware is generally highly dependent on, and interrelated with, the underlying operating system and cannot function without the operating system.
In these cases, the hardware and software license are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to resellers or directly to end customers through retail stores and online marketplaces.
Refer to Note 19 – Segment Information and Geographic Data for further information, including revenue by significant product and service offering.
Significant Judgments
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer.
Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment.
When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time.
Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation.
Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation.
We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software updates provided at no additional charge.
We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services.
In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs.
We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customers and circumstances.
In these instances, we may use information such as the size of the customer and geographic region in determining the SSP.
Due to the various benefits from and the nature of our SA program, judgment is required to assess the pattern of delivery, including the exercise pattern of certain benefits across our portfolio of customers.
PART I
Item 1
Our products are generally sold with a right of return and we may provide other credits or incentives, which are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize.
Returns and credits are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available.
Contract Balances
Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to customers.
We record a receivable when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing, or unearned revenue when revenue is recognized subsequent to invoicing.
For multi-year agreements, we generally invoice customers annually at the beginning of each annual coverage period.
We record a receivable related to revenue recognized for multi-year on-premises licenses as we have an unconditional right to invoice and receive payment in the future related to those licenses.
The opening balance of current and long-term accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, was $22.3 billion as of July 1, 2016.
As of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017, long-term accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, were $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, and are included in other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheets.
The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the accounts receivable balance.
We determine the allowance based on known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence.
Unearned revenue is comprised mainly of unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include SA and cloud services.
Unearned revenue is generally invoiced annually at the beginning of each contract period for multi-year agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period.
Unearned revenue also includes payments for consulting services to be performed in the future; LinkedIn subscriptions; Office 365 subscriptions; Xbox Live subscriptions; Dynamics business solutions; Windows 10 post-delivery support; Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service.
Refer to Note 14 – Unearned Revenue for further information, including unearned revenue by segment and changes in unearned revenue during the period.
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment within 30 to 60 days.
In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we have determined our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component.
The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, not to receive financing from our customers or to provide customers with financing.
Examples include invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with revenue recognized ratably over the contract period, and multi-year on-premises licenses that are invoiced annually with revenue recognized upfront.
PART I
Item 1
Assets Recognized from Costs to Obtain a Contract with a Customer
We recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if we expect the benefit of those costs to be longer than one year.
We have determined that certain sales incentive programs meet the requirements to be capitalized.
Total capitalized costs to obtain a contract were immaterial during the periods presented and are included in other current and long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheets.
We apply a practical expedient to expense costs as incurred for costs to obtain a contract with a customer when the amortization period would have been one year or less.
These costs include our internal sales force compensation program and certain partner sales incentive programs as we have determined annual compensation is commensurate with annual sales activities.
Leases
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets.
Finance leases are included in property and equipment, other current liabilities, and other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately.
For certain equipment leases, such as vehicles, we account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
Additionally, for certain equipment leases, we apply a portfolio approach to effectively account for the operating lease ROU assets and liabilities.
Recent Tax Legislation
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) was enacted into law, which significantly changes existing U.S. tax law and includes numerous provisions that affect our business.
Refer to Note 12 – Income Taxes for further discussion.
These adjustments had no impact on our consolidated income statements or net cash from or used in operating, financing, or investing on our consolidated cash flows statements.
Recent Accounting Guidance
Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance
Leases
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard related to leases to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet.
Most prominent among the changes in the standard is the recognition of ROU assets
PART I
Item 1
and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases.
Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We are also required to recognize and measure leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented using a modified retrospective approach, with certain practical expedients available.
We elected to early adopt the standard effective July 1, 2017 concurrent with our adoption of the new standard related to revenue recognition.
We elected the available practical expedients and implemented internal controls and key system functionality to enable the preparation of financial information on adoption.
The standard had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheets, but did not have an impact on our consolidated income statements.
The most significant impact was the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while our accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
Adoption of the standard required us to restate certain previously reported results, including the recognition of additional ROU assets and lease liabilities for operating leases.
Refer to Impacts to Previously Reported Results below for the impact of adoption of the standard on our consolidated financial statements.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
In May 2014, the FASB issued a new standard related to revenue recognition.
Under the standard, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
In addition, the standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
We elected to early adopt the standard effective July 1, 2017, using the full retrospective method, which required us to restate each prior reporting period presented.
We implemented internal controls and key system functionality to enable the preparation of financial information on adoption.
The most significant impact of the standard relates to our accounting for software license revenue.
Specifically, for Windows 10, we recognize revenue predominantly at the time of billing and delivery rather than ratably over the life of the related device.
For certain multi-year commercial software subscriptions that include both distinct software licenses and SA, we recognize license revenue at the time of contract execution rather than over the subscription period.
Due to the complexity of certain of our commercial license subscription contracts, the actual revenue recognition treatment required under the standard depends on contract-specific terms and in some instances may vary from recognition at the time of billing.
Revenue recognition related to our hardware, cloud offerings (such as Office 365), LinkedIn, and professional services remains substantially unchanged.
Adoption of the standard using the full retrospective method required us to restate certain previously reported results, including the recognition of additional revenue and an increase in the provision for income taxes, primarily due to the net change in Windows 10 revenue recognition.
In addition, adoption of the standard resulted in an increase in accounts receivable and other current and long-term assets, driven by unbilled receivables from upfront recognition of revenue for certain multi-year commercial software subscriptions that include both distinct software licenses and SA; a reduction of unearned revenue, driven by the upfront recognition of license revenue from Windows 10 and certain multi-year commercial software subscriptions; and an increase in deferred income taxes, driven by the upfront recognition of revenue.
Refer to Impacts to Previously Reported Results below for the impact of adoption of the standard on our consolidated financial statements.
PART I
Item 1
Impacts to Previously Reported Results
Adoption of the standards related to revenue recognition and leases had no impact to cash from or used in operating, financing, or investing on our consolidated cash flows statements.
Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted
Financial Instruments – Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities
In August 2017, the FASB issued new guidance related to accounting for hedging activities.
This guidance expands strategies that qualify for hedge accounting, changes how many hedging relationships are presented in the financial statements, and simplifies the application of hedge accounting in certain situations.
The standard will be effective for us beginning July 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted for any interim or annual period before the effective date.
Adoption of the standard will be applied using a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our consolidated financial statements, including accounting policies, processes, and systems.
Accounting for Income Taxes – Intra-Entity Asset Transfers
In October 2016, the FASB issued new guidance requiring an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs, rather than when the asset has been sold to an outside party.
This guidance is effective for us beginning July 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted beginning July 1, 2017.
We plan to adopt the guidance effective July 1, 2018.
Adoption of the guidance will be applied using a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date.
A cumulative-effect adjustment will capture the write-off of income tax consequences deferred
PART I
Item 1
from past intra-entity transfers involving assets other than inventory and new deferred tax assets for amounts not recognized under current GAAP.
As a result of the TCJA, we are currently re-evaluating the impact of this standard on our consolidated financial statements, including accounting policies, processes, and systems.
Financial Instruments – Credit Losses
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
We will be required to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivables, loans, and other financial instruments.
Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities will also be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than as a reduction in the amortized cost basis of the securities.
The standard will be effective for us beginning July 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted beginning July 1, 2019.
Adoption of the standard will be applied using a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date to align our credit loss methodology with the new standard.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our consolidated financial statements, including accounting policies, processes, and systems.
Financial Instruments – Recognition, Measurement, Presentation, and Disclosure
In January 2016, the FASB issued a new standard related to certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments.
Most prominent among the changes in the standard is the requirement for changes in the fair value of our equity investments, with certain exceptions, to be recognized through net income rather than other comprehensive income (“OCI”).
Under the standard, equity investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value are eligible for the measurement alternative.
Using the measurement alternative, investments without readily determinable fair values will be valued at cost, with adjustments to fair value for changes in price or impairments reflected through net income.
The standard will be effective for us beginning July 1, 2018.
Adoption of the standard will be applied using a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment from accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) to retained earnings as of the effective date.
A cumulative-effect adjustment will capture any previously held unrealized gains and losses held in AOCI related to our equity investments carried at fair value as well as the impact of recording the fair value of certain equity investments carried at cost.
The remaining implementation matters include establishing processes and controls around equity securities without readily determinable fair values and evaluating the impact of the standard to our accounting policies and disclosures.
We expect to elect the measurement alternative for equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values.
The impact on our consolidated balance sheets upon adoption will depend on the unrealized gains and losses held in AOCI related to our equity investments on the date of adoption, and on any impact the new guidance may have on our equity investments carried at cost.
See Note 4 – Investments for our current investment balances.
The impact of the standard going forward on our consolidated income statement will be dependent on our equity investment holdings, with adjustments to fair value reflected through net income.
Adoption of the standard is expected to have no impact to cash from or used in operating, financing or investing on our consolidated cash flows statements.
PART I
Item 1
NOTE 2 — EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method.
Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards.
Anti-dilutive stock-based awards excluded from the calculations of diluted EPS were immaterial during the periods presented.
In periods where we recognized a net loss, we excluded the impact of potentially dilutive outstanding stock-based awards from the calculation of diluted loss per share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect.
NOTE 3 — OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET
PART I
Item 1
NOTE 4 — INVESTMENTS
Investment Components
PART I
Item 1
As of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017, the recorded bases of common and preferred stock that are restricted for more than one year or are not publicly traded were $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively.
These investments are carried at cost and are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment.
It is not practicable for us to reliably estimate the fair value of these investments.
Unrealized Losses on Investments
Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable to changes in interest rates.
Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due to market price movements.
Management does not believe any remaining unrealized losses represent other-than-temporary impairments based on our evaluation of available evidence.
PART I
Item 1
Debt Investment Maturities
NOTE 5 — DERIVATIVES
We use derivative instruments to manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; to enhance investment returns; and to facilitate portfolio diversification.
Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact of these exposures as effectively as possible.
Our derivative programs include strategies that both qualify and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
All notional amounts presented below are measured in U.S. dollar equivalents.
Foreign Currency
Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk.
We monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions.
Option and forward contracts are used to hedge a portion of forecasted international revenue for up to three years in the future and are designated as cash flow hedging instruments.
Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar.
As of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017, the total notional amounts of these foreign exchange contracts sold were $7.5 billion and $8.9 billion, respectively.
Foreign currency risks related to certain non-U.S. dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated as fair value hedging instruments.
As of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017, the total notional amounts of these foreign exchange contracts sold were $5.6 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively.
Certain options and forwards not designated as hedging instruments are also used to manage the variability in foreign exchange rates on certain balance sheet amounts and to manage other foreign currency exposures.
As of December 31, 2017, the total notional amounts of these foreign exchange contracts purchased and sold were $8.9 billion and $10.4 billion, respectively.
As of June 30, 2017, the total notional amounts of these foreign exchange contracts purchased and sold were $8.8 billion and $10.6 billion, respectively.
Equity
Securities held in our equity and other investments portfolio are subject to market price risk.
Market price risk is managed relative to broad-based global and domestic equity indices using certain convertible preferred investments, options, futures, and swap contracts not designated as hedging instruments.
From time to time, to hedge our price risk, we may use and designate equity derivatives as hedging instruments, including puts, calls, swaps, and forwards.
As of December 31, 2017, the total notional amounts of equity contracts purchased and sold for managing market price risk were $1.5 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, of which $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, were designated as hedging instruments.
As of June 30, 2017, the total notional amounts of equity contracts purchased and sold for managing market price risk were $1.9 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively, of which $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, were designated as hedging instruments.
PART I
Item 1
Interest Rate
Securities held in our fixed-income portfolio are subject to different interest rate risks based on their maturities.
We manage the average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain broad-based fixed-income indices using exchange-traded option and futures contracts, and over-the-counter swap and option contracts, none of which are designated as hedging instruments.
As of December 31, 2017, the total notional amounts of fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were $584 million and $377 million, respectively.
As of June 30, 2017, the total notional amounts of fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were $233 million and $352 million, respectively.
In addition, we use “To Be Announced” forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency mortgage-backed securities.
These meet the definition of a derivative instrument in cases where physical delivery of the assets is not taken at the earliest available delivery date.
As of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017, the total notional derivative amounts of mortgage contracts purchased were $542 million and $567 million, respectively.
Credit
Our fixed-income portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment-grade securities.
We use credit default swap contracts, not designated as hedging instruments, to manage credit exposures relative to broad-based indices and to facilitate portfolio diversification.
We use credit default swaps as they are a low-cost method of managing exposure to individual credit risks or groups of credit risks.
As of December 31, 2017, the total notional amounts of credit contracts purchased and sold were $240 million and $48 million, respectively.
As of June 30, 2017, the total notional amounts of credit contracts purchased and sold were $267 million and $63 million, respectively.
Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features
Certain of our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments contain provisions that require our issued and outstanding long-term unsecured debt to maintain an investment grade credit rating and require us to maintain minimum liquidity of $1.0 billion.
To the extent we fail to meet these requirements, we will be required to post collateral, similar to the standard convention related to over-the-counter derivatives.
As of December 31, 2017, our long-term unsecured debt rating was AAA, and cash investments were in excess of $1.0 billion.
As a result, no collateral was required to be posted.
Fair Values of Derivative Instruments
Derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair value.
The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation.
For derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges, the gains (losses) are recognized in earnings in the periods of change together with the offsetting (losses) gains on the hedged items attributed to the risk being hedged.
For options designated as fair value hedges, changes in the time value are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and are recognized in earnings.
For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gains (losses) on the derivatives is initially reported as a component of OCI and is subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged exposure is recognized in earnings.
For options designated as cash flow hedges, changes in the time value are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and are recognized in earnings.
Gains (losses) on derivatives representing either hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness or hedge ineffectiveness are recognized in earnings.
For derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges, gains (losses) from changes in fair values are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net.
Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, the gains (losses) are generally economically offset by unrealized gains (losses) in the underlying available-for-sale securities, which are recorded as a component of OCI until the securities are sold or other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the amounts are reclassified from AOCI into other income (expense), net.
PART I
Item 1
PART I
Item 1
Refer to Note 4 – Investments and Note 6 – Fair Value Measurements for further information.
PART I
Item 1
Fair Value Hedge Gains (Losses)
Cash Flow Hedge Gains (Losses)
We estimate that $22 million of net derivative gains included in AOCI as of December 31, 2017 will be reclassified into earnings within the following 12 months.
No significant amounts of gains (losses) were reclassified from AOCI into earnings as a result of forecasted transactions that failed to occur during the three and six months ended December 31, 2017.
PART I
Item 1
Non-Designated Derivative Gains (Losses)
Gains (losses) from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net.
These amounts are shown in the table below, with the exception of gains (losses) on derivatives presented in income statement line items other than other income (expense), net, which were immaterial for the periods presented.
Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, the gains (losses) below are generally economically offset by unrealized gains (losses) in the underlying available-for-sale securities and gains (losses) from foreign exchange rate changes on certain balance sheet amounts.
NOTE 6 — FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
•
Level 1 – inputs are based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
Our Level 1 non-derivative investments primarily include U.S. government securities, domestic and international equities, and actively traded mutual funds.
Our Level 1 derivative assets and liabilities include those actively traded on exchanges.
•
Level 2 – inputs are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques (e.g.
the Black-Scholes model) for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot prices for currencies.
Our Level 2 non-derivative investments consist primarily of foreign government bonds, corporate notes and bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, U.S. government and agency securities, certificates of deposit, and common and preferred stock.
Our Level 2 derivative assets and liabilities primarily include certain over-the-counter option and swap contracts.
•
Level 3 – inputs are generally unobservable and typically reflect management’s estimates of assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
The fair values are therefore determined using model-based techniques, including option pricing models and discounted cash flow models.
Our Level 3 non-derivative assets and liabilities primarily comprise investments in common and preferred stock, and goodwill and intangible assets, when they are recorded at fair value due to an impairment charge.
Unobservable inputs used in the models are significant to the fair values of the assets and liabilities.
We measure certain assets, including our cost and equity method investments, at fair value on a nonrecurring basis when they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired.
The fair values of these investments are determined based on valuation techniques using the best information available, and may include quoted market prices, market comparables, and discounted cash flow projections.
An impairment charge is recorded when the cost of the investment exceeds its fair value and this condition is determined to be other-than-temporary.
Our other current financial assets and current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying values.
PART I
Item 1
Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
These amounts represent the impact of netting derivative assets and derivative liabilities when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists and fair value adjustments related to our own credit risk and counterparty credit risk.
The changes in our Level 3 financial instruments that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis were immaterial during the periods presented.
PART I
Item 1
The following table reconciles the total “Net Fair Value” of assets above to the balance sheet presentation of these same assets in Note 4 – Investments.
Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
During the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we did not record any material other-than-temporary impairments on financial assets required to be measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
NOTE 7 — INVENTORIES
NOTE 8 — BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
On December 8, 2016, we completed our acquisition of all issued and outstanding shares of LinkedIn Corporation, the world’s largest professional network on the Internet, for a total purchase price of $27.0 billion.
The purchase price consisted primarily of cash of $26.9 billion.
The acquisition is expected to accelerate the growth of LinkedIn, Office 365, and Dynamics 365.
The financial results of LinkedIn have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of the acquisition.
NOTE 9 — GOODWILL
The measurement periods for the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed end as soon as information on the facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition dates becomes available, but do not exceed 12 months.
Adjustments in purchase price allocations may require a change in the amounts allocated to goodwill during the periods in which the adjustments are determined.
PART I
Item 1
Any change in the goodwill amounts resulting from foreign currency translations and purchase accounting adjustments are presented as “Other” in the above table.
Also included in “Other” are business dispositions and transfers between segments due to reorganizations, as applicable.
NOTE 10 — INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Technology-based intangible assets included $32 million and $59 million of net carrying amount of software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed as of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
Intangible assets amortization expense was $562 million and $1.1 billion for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, and $315 million and $529 million for the three and six months ended December 31, 2016, respectively.
PART I
Item 1
NOTE 11 — DEBT
Short-term Debt
As of December 31, 2017, we had $12.5 billion of commercial paper issued and outstanding, with a weighted average interest rate of 1.31% and maturities ranging from 22 days to 196 days.
As of June 30, 2017, we had $9.1 billion of commercial paper issued and outstanding, with a weighted average interest rate of 1.01% and maturities ranging from 25 days to 264 days.
The estimated fair value of this commercial paper approximates its carrying value.
In October 2017, we entered into two new $5.0 billion credit facilities that expire on October 30, 2018 and October 31, 2022, respectively, which replaced our previous credit facilities.
These credit facilities serve as a back-up for our commercial paper program.
As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with the only financial covenant in both credit agreements, which requires us to maintain a coverage ratio of at least three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization to interest expense, as defined in the credit agreements.
No amounts were drawn against these credit facilities during any of the periods presented.
Long-term Debt
As of December 31, 2017, the total carrying value and estimated fair value of our long-term debt, including the current portion, were $76.8 billion and $81.7 billion, respectively.
As of June 30, 2017, the total carrying value and estimated fair value of our long-term debt, including the current portion, were $77.1 billion and $80.3 billion, respectively.
These estimated fair values are based on Level 2 inputs.
PART I
Item 1
Euro-denominated debt securities.
PART I
Item 1
The notes in the table above are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other senior unsecured debt outstanding.
Interest on these notes is paid semi-annually, except for the euro-denominated debt securities on which interest is paid annually.
As of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017, the aggregate debt issuance costs and unamortized discount associated with our long-term debt, including the current portion, were $688 million and $715 million, respectively.
NOTE 12 — INCOME TAXES
Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income taxes, and interest and penalties on uncertain tax positions.
Certain income and expenses are not reported in tax returns and financial statements in the same year.
The tax effect of such temporary differences is reported as deferred income taxes.
Deferred tax assets are reported net of a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized.
All deferred income taxes are classified as long-term on our consolidated balance sheets.
Effective Tax Rate
Our effective tax rate was 169% and 22% for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 98% and 20% for the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The increase in our effective tax rate for the current quarter and year-to-date compared to the prior year was primarily due to the net charge related to the TCJA.
Our effective tax rate was higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the net charge related to the TCJA.
Recent Tax Legislation
On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted into law, which significantly changes existing U.S. tax law and includes numerous provisions that affect our business, such as imposing a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income, reducing the U.S. federal statutory tax rate, and adopting a territorial tax system.
The TCJA requires us to incur a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign income not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of 15.5% for foreign cash and certain other net current assets, and 8% on the remaining income.
The TCJA also reduces the U.S. federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.
For fiscal year 2018, our blended U.S. federal statutory tax rate is 28%.
This is the result of using the tax rate of 35% for the first and second quarter of fiscal year 2018 and the reduced tax rate of 21% for the third and fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The TCJA includes a provision to tax global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) of foreign subsidiaries and a base erosion anti-abuse tax (“BEAT”) measure that taxes certain payments between a U.S. corporation and its subsidiaries.
The GILTI and BEAT provisions of the TCJA will be effective for us beginning July 1, 2018.
The TCJA is effective in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
As of December 31, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA.
During the quarter, we recorded a provisional net charge based on reasonable estimates for those tax effects.
The provisional net charge is subject to revisions as we complete our analysis of the TCJA, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), FASB, and other standard-setting and regulatory bodies.
Adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made.
Our accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA will be completed during the measurement period, which should not extend beyond one year from the enactment date.
The impacts of our estimates are described further below.
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, we recorded an estimated net charge of $13.8 billion related to the TCJA, due to the impact of the one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income of $17.8 billion, offset in part by the impact of changes in the tax rate of $4.0 billion, primarily on deferred tax assets and liabilities.
We recorded an estimated $17.8 billion charge related to the transition tax, which was included in provision for income taxes on our consolidated income statements and income taxes on our consolidated balance sheets.
We have not yet completed our accounting for the transition tax as our analysis of deferred foreign income is not complete.
To calculate the transition tax, we estimated our deferred foreign income for fiscal year 2017 and the first and second quarter of fiscal year 2018 because these tax returns are not complete or due.
The fiscal year 2017 and fiscal year 2018 taxable income will be known once the respective tax returns are complete and filed.
In addition,
PART I
Item 1
U.S. and foreign audit settlements may significantly impact the estimated transition tax.
The impact of the U.S. and foreign audits on the transition tax will be known as the audits are concluded.
In addition, we recorded an estimated $4.0 billion benefit from the impact of changes in the tax rate, primarily on deferred tax assets and liabilities, which was included in provision for income taxes on our consolidated income statements and deferred income taxes on our consolidated balance sheets.
We remeasured our deferred taxes to reflect the reduced rate that will apply when these deferred taxes are settled or realized in future periods.
We have not yet completed our accounting for the measurement of deferred taxes.
To calculate the remeasurement of deferred taxes, we estimated when the existing deferred taxes will be settled or realized.
The remeasurement of deferred taxes included in our financial statements will be subject to further revisions if our current estimates are different from our actual future operating results.
The TCJA subjects a U.S. corporation to tax on its GILTI.
Due to the complexity of the new GILTI tax rules, we are continuing to evaluate this provision of the TCJA and the application of GAAP.
Under GAAP, we can make an accounting policy election to either treat taxes due on the GILTI inclusion as a current period expense, or factor such amounts into our measurement of deferred taxes.
We elected the deferred method and recorded an estimated $454 million benefit related to GILTI, which is included in the net charge related to the TCJA.
Uncertain Tax Positions
While we settled a portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2004 to 2006 during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, and a portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2007 to 2009 during the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, we remain under audit for those years.
In the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, we settled a portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2010 to 2013.
We continue to be subject to examination by the IRS for tax years 2010 to 2016.
In February 2012, the IRS withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents Report for tax years 2004 to 2006 and reopened the audit phase of the examination.
As of December 31, 2017, the primary unresolved issue relates to transfer pricing, which could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements if not resolved favorably.
We believe our allowances for income tax contingencies are adequate.
We have not received a proposed assessment for the unresolved issues and do not expect a final resolution of these issues in the next 12 months.
Based on the information currently available, we do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to our tax contingencies for these issues within the next 12 months.
We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our operations in certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2017, some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities.
The resolutions of these audits are not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements.
Tax contingencies and other income tax liabilities were $13.8 billion and $13.5 billion as of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017, respectively, and are included in long-term income taxes on our consolidated balance sheets.
This increase relates primarily to current period intercompany transfer pricing.
NOTE 13 — RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
In June 2017, management approved a sales and marketing restructuring plan.
In fiscal year 2017, we recorded employee severance expenses of $306 million primarily related to this sales and marketing restructuring plan.
We do not expect to incur additional charges for this restructuring plan in subsequent years.
The actions associated with this restructuring plan are expected to be completed by the end of fiscal year 2018.
Primarily reflects activities associated with the consolidation of our phone facilities, manufacturing operations, and contract termination costs.
PART I
Item 1
NOTE 14 — UNEARNED REVENUE
The opening balance of unearned revenue was $22.2 billion as of July 1, 2016.
Revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized (“contracted not recognized revenue”), which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods.
Contracted not recognized revenue was $61 billion as of December 31, 2017, of which we expect to recognize approximately 60% of the revenue over the next 12 months and the remainder thereafter.
NOTE 15 — LEASES
We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, retail stores, and certain equipment.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 year to 20 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 5 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year.
PART I
Item 1
PART I
Item 1
As of December 31, 2017, we have additional operating and finance leases, primarily for datacenters, that have not yet commenced of $237 million and $1.6 billion, respectively.
These operating and finance leases will commence between fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2019 with lease terms of 1 year to 20 years.
NOTE 16 — CONTINGENCIES
Patent and Intellectual Property Claims
IPCom Patent Litigation
Other Patent and Intellectual Property Claims
In addition to the IPCom cases, there were 34 other patent infringement cases pending against Microsoft as of December 31, 2017.
Antitrust, Unfair Competition, and Overcharge Class Actions
The trial of the British Columbia action commenced in May 2016.
The plaintiffs filed their case in chief in August 2016, setting out claims made, authorities, and evidence in support of their claims.
A six-month oral hearing is expected to begin in summer 2018, consisting of cross examination on witness affidavits.
The Ontario and Quebec cases are inactive.
Other Antitrust Litigation and Claims
China State Administration for Industry and Commerce Investigation
In 2014, Microsoft was informed that China’s State Administration for Industry and Commerce (“SAIC”) had begun a formal investigation relating to China’s Anti-Monopoly Law, and the SAIC conducted onsite inspections of Microsoft offices in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Chengdu.
SAIC has stated the investigation relates to compatibility, bundle sales, file verification issues related to Windows and Office software, and potentially other issues.
PART I
Item 1
Product-Related Litigation
U.S.
Cell Phone Litigation
Nokia, along with other handset manufacturers and network operators, is a defendant in 35 lawsuits filed in the Superior Court for the District of Columbia by individual plaintiffs who allege that radio emissions from cellular handsets caused their brain tumors and other adverse health effects.
We assumed responsibility for these claims in our agreement to acquire Nokia’s Devices and Services business and have been substituted for the Nokia defendants.
Nine of these cases were filed in 2002 and are consolidated for certain pre-trial proceedings; the remaining 10 cases are stayed.
In a separate 2009 decision, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia held that adverse health effect claims arising from the use of cellular handsets that operate within the U.S. Federal Communications Commission radio frequency emission guidelines (“FCC Guidelines”) are pre-empted by federal law.
The plaintiffs allege that their handsets either operated outside the FCC Guidelines or were manufactured before the FCC Guidelines went into effect.
The lawsuits also allege an industry-wide conspiracy to manipulate the science and testing around emission guidelines.
In 2013, defendants in the consolidated cases moved to exclude plaintiffs’ expert evidence of general causation on the basis of flawed scientific methodologies.
In 2014, the trial court granted in part and denied in part defendants’ motion to exclude plaintiffs’ general causation experts.
The defendants filed an interlocutory appeal challenging the standard for evaluating expert scientific evidence, which the District of Columbia Court of Appeals heard en banc.
In October 2016, the Court of Appeals issued its decision adopting the standard advocated by defendants and remanding the cases to the trial court for further proceedings under that standard.
Plaintiffs have filed supplemental expert evidence, portions of which defendants have moved to strike.
Canadian Cell Phone Class Action
Nokia, along with other handset manufacturers and network operators, is a defendant in a 2013 class action lawsuit filed in the Supreme Court of British Columbia by a purported class of Canadians who have used cellular phones for at least 1,600 hours, including a subclass of users with brain tumors, alleging adverse health effects from cellular phone use.
Microsoft was served with the complaint in June 2014 and has been substituted for the Nokia defendants.
The litigation has been dormant for more than three years.
Employment-Related Litigation
Moussouris v. Microsoft
Current and former female Microsoft employees in certain engineering and information technology roles brought this class action in federal court in Seattle in 2015, alleging systemic gender discrimination in pay and promotions.
The plaintiffs moved to certify the class in October 2017.
Microsoft filed an opposition in January 2018, attaching an expert report showing no statistically significant disparity in pay and promotions between similarly situated men and women.
The plaintiffs' reply is due in February 2018.
Other Contingencies
We also are subject to a variety of other claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business.
Although management currently believes that resolving claims against us, individually or in aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements, these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future.
As of December 31, 2017, we accrued aggregate legal liabilities of $370 million.
While we intend to defend these matters vigorously, adverse outcomes that we estimate could reach approximately $1.3 billion in aggregate beyond recorded amounts are reasonably possible.
Were unfavorable final outcomes to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements for the period in which the effects become reasonably estimable.
PART I
Item 1
NOTE 17 — STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Share Repurchases
On September 16, 2013, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing up to $40.0 billion in share repurchases.
This share repurchase program became effective on October 1, 2013, and was completed on December 22, 2016.
On September 20, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing up to an additional $40.0 billion in share repurchases.
This share repurchase program commenced on December 22, 2016 following completion of the prior program approved on September 16, 2013, has no expiration date, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time without notice.
As of December 31, 2017, $33.4 billion remained of this $40.0 billion share repurchase program.
Shares repurchased during fiscal year 2018 were under the share repurchase program approved September 20, 2016.
Shares repurchased during fiscal year 2017 were under the share repurchase program approved September 16, 2013.
The above table excludes shares repurchased to settle employee tax withholding related to the vesting of stock awards.
All repurchases were made using cash resources.
Dividends
The dividend declared on November 29, 2017 was included in other current liabilities as of December 31, 2017.
PART I
Item 1
NOTE 18 — ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
NOTE 19 — SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA
PART I
Item 1
Our reportable segments are described below.
Productivity and Business Processes
•
Office Commercial, including Office 365 subscriptions and Office licensed on-premises, comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Skype for Business, and Microsoft Teams, and related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”).
•
Office Consumer, including Office 365 subscriptions and Office licensed on-premises, and Office Consumer Services, including Skype, Outlook.com, and OneDrive.
•
LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions.
•
Dynamics business solutions, including Dynamics ERP on-premises, Dynamics CRM on-premises, and Dynamics 365, a set of cloud-based applications across ERP and CRM.
Intelligent Cloud
•
Server products and cloud services, including Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related CALs, and Azure.
•
Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services.
More Personal Computing
•
Windows, including Windows original equipment manufacturer licensing and other non-volume licensing of the Windows operating system; Windows Commercial, comprising volume licensing of the Windows operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial offerings; patent licensing; Windows Internet of Things (“IoT”); and MSN display advertising.
•
Devices, including Microsoft Surface, PC accessories, and other intelligent devices.
•
Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox software and services, comprising Xbox Live transactions, subscriptions, and advertising (“Xbox Live”), video games, and third-party video game royalties.
•
Search advertising.
Revenue and costs are generally directly attributed to our segments.
However, due to the integrated structure of our business, certain revenue recognized and costs incurred by one segment may benefit other segments.
Revenue from certain contracts is allocated among the segments based on the relative value of the underlying products and services, which can include allocation based on actual prices charged, prices when sold separately, or estimated costs plus a profit margin.
Cost of revenue is allocated in certain cases based on a relative revenue methodology.
Operating expenses that are allocated primarily include those relating to marketing of products and services from which multiple segments benefit, and are generally allocated based on relative gross margin.
PART I
Item 1
Includes billings to original equipment manufacturers and certain multinational organizations because of the nature of these businesses and the impracticability of determining the geographic source of the revenue.
Our commercial cloud revenue, which primarily comprises Office 365 commercial, Azure, Dynamics 365, and other cloud properties, was $5.3 billion and $10.4 billion for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, and $3.4 billion and $6.6 billion for the three and six months ended December 31, 2016, respectively.
These amounts are primarily included in Office products and cloud services and server products and cloud services in the table above.
Assets are not allocated to segments for internal reporting presentations.
A portion of amortization and depreciation is included with various other costs in an overhead allocation to each segment; it is impracticable for us to separately identify the amount of amortization and depreciation by segment that is included in the measure of segment profit or loss.
PART I
Item 1
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Microsoft Corporation
Redmond, Washington
We have reviewed the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2017, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and stockholders’ equity for the three-month and six-month periods ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
These interim financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
We conducted our reviews in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters.
It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole.
Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to such consolidated interim financial statements for them to be in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of June 30, 2017, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and stockholders’ equity for the year then ended prior to retrospective adjustment for the changes in the Company's method of accounting for revenue from contracts with customers and for leases, (not presented herein); and in our report dated August 2, 2017, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
We also audited the adjustments described in Note 1 that were applied to retrospectively adjust the June 30, 2017 consolidated balance sheet of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries.
In our opinion, such adjustments are appropriate and have been properly applied to the previously issued consolidated balance sheet in deriving the accompanying retrospectively adjusted consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2017.
Seattle, Washington
PART I
Item 1, 1A
PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION
ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Refer to Note 16 – Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock.
We face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins.
Competition in the technology sector
Our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources.
Barriers to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services.
Our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers.
Competition among platforms, ecosystems, and devices
An important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions.
A well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth.
Establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins.
We face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms, applications, and services.
•
A competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, and wearables.
Competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform.
We also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services.
To the extent we shift a portion of our business to a vertically integrated model we increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins.
•
We derive substantial revenue from licenses of Windows operating systems on personal computers.
We face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers.
These devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform.
Users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that in the past were performed by personal computers.
Even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract application developers to our PC operating system platforms.
Competing with operating systems licensed at low or no cost may decrease our PC operating system margins.
In addition, some of our devices compete with products made by our original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform.
•
Competing platforms have content and application marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases.
The variety and utility of content and applications available on a platform are important to device purchasing decisions.
Users sometimes incur costs to move data and buy new content and applications when switching platforms.
To compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our marketplace and ensure that these applications have high quality, customer appeal, and value.
Efforts to compete with competitors’ content and application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins.
PART II
Item 1A
Business model competition
Companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models.
•
Even as we transition more of our business to a services and subscription business model, the license-based proprietary software model generates most of our software revenue.
We bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products.
Many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model.
•
Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising.
Advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products.
•
Some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end-users, and earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products.
These firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software.
Some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality of our products.
Our increasing focus on services presents execution and competitive risks.
A growing part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices.
Our strategic vision is to compete and grow by building best-in-class platforms and productivity services for an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge infused with artificial intelligence.
At the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers.
Pricing and delivery models are evolving.
Devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the user’s choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use.
We are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies.
The Windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment.
We are undertaking cultural and organizational changes to drive accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation.
The Company’s investment in gaining insights from data is becoming central to the value of the services we deliver to customers, to our operational efficiency and key opportunities in monetization, customer perceptions of quality, and operational efficiency.
Our ability to use data in this way may be constrained by regulatory developments that impede realizing the expected return from this investment.
•
Continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share.
•
Maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including PCs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other television-related devices.
•
Continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers.
•
Ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data.
•
Making our suite of cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors.
It is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to succeed.
If we are not effective in executing organizational and technical changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not grow revenue in line with the infrastructure and development investments described above.
This may negatively impact gross margins and operating income.
PART II
Item 1A
We make significant investments in new products and services that may not achieve expected returns.
We will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, Microsoft Office, Bing, SQL Server, Windows Server, the Windows Store, Microsoft Azure, Office 365, other cloud-based offerings, Xbox Live, and LinkedIn.
We also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment including PCs, tablets, gaming devices, and HoloLens.
Investments in new technology are speculative.
Commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing.
If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue.
We may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for several years, if at all.
New products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically.
We did extensive preparation and ongoing compatibility testing for applications and devices to help ensure a positive experience for our users installing Windows 10.
However, negative upgrade experiences could adversely affect the reception of Windows 10 in the marketplace and could lead to litigation or regulatory actions by customers and government agencies.
In addition, we anticipate that Windows 10 will enable new post-license monetization opportunities beyond initial license revenues.
Our inability to realize these opportunities to the extent we expect could have an adverse impact on our revenues.
Finally, our practices for data collection, use, and management in Windows 10 are subject to regulatory review, and may result in decisions directing us to change these practices and imposing fines.
If so, we could face negative public reaction, degraded user experiences, and reduced flexibility in product design.
Developing new technologies is complex.
It can require long development and testing periods.
Significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue.
Acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business.
We expect to continue making acquisitions and entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy.
In December 2016, we completed our acquisition of LinkedIn for $27.0 billion.
The LinkedIn acquisition and other transactions and arrangements involve significant challenges and risks, including that they do not advance our business strategy, that we get an unsatisfactory return on our investment, that we have difficulty integrating and retaining new employees, business systems, and technology, or that they distract management from our other businesses.
If an arrangement fails to adequately anticipate changing circumstances and interests of a party, it may result in early termination or renegotiation of the arrangement.
The success of these transactions and arrangements will depend in part on our ability to leverage them to enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones.
It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions and arrangements, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or increased market share, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected.
These events could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition.
If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.
We acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles.
We review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
We test goodwill for impairment at least annually.
Factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we participate.
We may be required to record a significant charge on our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our results of operations.
For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015, we recorded a $5.1 billion charge for the impairment of goodwill and a $2.2 billion charge for the impairment of intangible assets, and in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016 we recorded a $480 million charge for the impairment of intangible assets.
The impairment charges for both periods related to our phone business.
Our acquisition of LinkedIn resulted in a significant increase in our goodwill and intangible asset balances.
PART II
Item 1A
We may not earn the revenues we expect from our intellectual property rights.
We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights
Protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and other intellectual property on a global basis is difficult.
While piracy adversely affects U.S. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the U.S. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights.
Our revenue in these markets may grow slower than the underlying device market.
Similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights.
Throughout the world, we educate users about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected.
Reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue.
We may not receive expected royalties from our patent licenses
We expend significant resources to patent the intellectual property we create with the expectation that we will generate revenues by incorporating that intellectual property in our products or services or, in some instances, by licensing our patents to others in return for a royalty.
Changes in the law may weaken our ability to prevent the use of patented technology or collect revenue for licensing our patents.
These include legislative changes and regulatory actions that make it more difficult to obtain injunctions, and the increasing use of legal process to challenge issued patents.
Similarly, licensees of our patents may fail to satisfy their obligations to pay us royalties, or may contest the scope and extent of their obligations.
Finally, the royalties we can obtain to monetize our intellectual property may decline because of the evolution of technology, selling price changes in products using licensed patents, or the difficulty of discovering infringements.
Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights.
From time to time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights.
The number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the markets in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, and our offering of first-party devices, such as Surface.
To resolve these claims, we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers.
These outcomes may cause operating margins to decline.
Besides money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or services that have infringing technologies.
In some countries, such as Germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents.
We have paid significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so.
We may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code.
Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business.
Although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to several licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code.
If a significant portion of our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that source code.
It may become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins.
Unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph.
We may not be able to protect information on our products and services from use by others.
LinkedIn and other Microsoft products and services contain valuable information and content protected by contractual restrictions or technical measures.
In certain cases, we have made commitments to our members and users to limit access to or use of this information.
Changes in the law or interpretations of the law may weaken our ability to prevent third parties from scraping or gathering information or content through use of bots or other measures and using it for their own benefit, thus diminishing the value of our products and services.
PART II
Item 1A
Cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our reputation or competitive position.
Security of Microsoft’s information technology
Threats to IT security can take a variety of forms.
Individual and groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, continuously undertake attacks that pose threats to our customers and our IT.
These actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include developing and deploying malicious software or exploiting vulnerabilities in hardware, software, or other infrastructure in order to attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and datacenters, using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data, or acting in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks.
Cyber threats are constantly evolving, increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them.
Cyber threats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our partners and customers.
Breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our reputation or competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business.
In addition, our internal IT environment continues to evolve.
Often, we are early adopters of new devices and technologies.
We embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies.
Our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge.
Security of our products, services, devices, and customers’ data
The security of our products and services is important in our customers’ decisions to purchase or use our products or services.
Security threats are a challenge to companies like us whose business is technology products and services.
Threats to our own IT infrastructure can also affect our customers.
Customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data.
Hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect that to continue.
Hackers that acquire user account information at other companies can use that information to compromise our users’ accounts where accounts share the same attributes like passwords.
To defend against security threats, both to our internal IT systems, our cloud-based services, and our customers’ systems, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities in our own products as well as those provided by others, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide customers security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software and information about the need to deploy security measures and the impact of doing so.
The cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins.
If we fail to do these things well, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services, data corruption issues, or reduced performance could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services.
Customers may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services.
Customers may fail to update their systems, continue to run software or operating systems we no longer support, or may fail timely to install or enable security patches.
Any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our reputation and revenue.
Actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us.
Our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, but there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges.
At times, to achieve commercial objectives, we may enter into agreements with larger liability exposure to customers.
Legislative or regulatory action in these areas may increase the costs to develop, implement, or secure our products and services.
PART II
Item 1A
As illustrated by the recent Spectre and Meltdown threats, our products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on products and components across a broad ecosystem.
If there is a security vulnerability in one of these components, and if there is a security exploit targeting it, we could face increased costs, liability claims, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position.
Disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation.
As we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers.
The continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security.
Despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of customer data we or our vendors store and manage.
Improper disclosure could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.
Our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host.
Government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer data in response to valid legal orders.
In the U.S. and elsewhere, we advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations on government authority to compel disclosure.
Despite our efforts to protect customer data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities.
Additional security measures we may take to address customer concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses.
Abuse of our advertising or social platforms may harm our reputation or user engagement.
For LinkedIn, Bing Ads, and other products and services that provide content or host ads that come from or can be influenced by third parties, our reputation or user engagement may be negatively affected by activity that is hostile or inappropriate to other people, by users impersonating other people or organizations, by use of our products or services to disseminate information that may be viewed as misleading or intended to manipulate the opinions of our users, or by the use of our products or services that violates our terms of service or otherwise for objectionable or illegal ends.
Preventing these actions may require us to make substantial investments in people and technology and these investments may not be successful, adversely affecting our business and financial results.
We may have outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure.
Our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power.
We spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters.
These demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth of existing services such as Bing, Exchange Online, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Account services, Office 365, OneDrive, SharePoint Online, Skype, Xbox Live, Outlook.com, and Windows Stores.
We are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users.
Maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex.
It requires that we maintain an Internet connectivity infrastructure that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve.
Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data or insufficient Internet connectivity, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition.
Government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we design and market our products.
As a leading global software and device maker, government agencies closely scrutinize us under U.S. and foreign competition laws.
An increasing number of governments are regulating competition law activities and this includes increased scrutiny in potentially large markets such as the European Union (“EU”), the U.S., and China.
Some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct.
U.S. federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business.
The European Commission (“the Commission”) closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume Microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies.
Flagship product releases such as Windows 10 can receive significant scrutiny under competition laws.
For example, in 2004, the Commission ordered us to create new versions of our Windows operating system that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols in their own products.
In 2009, the Commission accepted a set of commitments offered by Microsoft to address the Commission’s concerns relating to competition in web browsing software, including an undertaking to address Commission
PART II
Item 1A
concerns relating to interoperability.
The web browsing commitments expired in 2014.
The remaining obligations may limit our ability to innovate in Windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the Windows platform, and increase our product development costs.
The availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our products, which could hamper sales of our products.
Our portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time our OEM partners offer a large variety of devices on our platforms.
As a result, increasingly we both cooperate and compete with our OEM partners, creating a risk that we fail to do so in compliance with competition rules.
Regulatory scrutiny in this area may increase.
Certain foreign governments, particularly in China and other countries in Asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual property.
Because these jurisdictions only recently implemented competition laws, their enforcement activities are unpredictable.
•
We may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely.
•
We may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property.
•
The rulings described above may be precedent in other competition law proceedings.
•
We are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments because of court or administrative orders, consent decrees, or other voluntary actions we have taken.
If we fail to comply with these commitments, we may incur litigation costs and be subject to substantial fines or other remedial actions.
•
Our ability to realize anticipated Windows 10 post-sale monetization opportunities may be limited.
Our global operations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations.
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (“Anti-Corruption Laws”) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents.
From time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere and reports from employees and others about our business activities outside the U.S. and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws.
Specifically, we have been cooperating with authorities in the U.S. in connection with reports concerning our compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in various countries.
While we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies.
Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation.
Operations outside the U.S. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies, and measures, sanctions, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment.
We may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of U.S. trade sanctions on countries such as Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Sudan, and Syria.
Other regulatory areas that may apply to our products and online services offerings include user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, and online content.
For example, regulators may take the position that our offerings such as Skype are covered by laws regulating telecommunications services.
Data protection authorities may assert that our collection, use, and management of customer data is inconsistent with their laws and regulations.
Applying these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
Additionally, these laws and governments’ approach to their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to evolve.
Compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue.
Noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties or orders we stop the alleged noncompliant activity.
Laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may impede the adoption of our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against us.
The growth of our Internet- and cloud-based services internationally relies increasingly on the movement of data across national boundaries.
Legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, and transfer of personal data continue to evolve.
For example, the EU and the U.S. formally entered into a new framework in July 2016 that provides a mechanism for companies to transfer data from EU member states to the U.S.
This framework, called the Privacy Shield, is intended to address shortcomings
PART II
Item 1A
identified by the European Court of Justice in a predecessor mechanism.
The Privacy Shield and other mechanisms are currently subject to challenges in European courts, which may lead to uncertainty about the legal basis for data transfers across the Atlantic.
In 2016, the EU adopted a new law governing data practices and privacy called the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which becomes effective in May 2018.
The law requires firms to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data.
Engineering efforts to build new capabilities to facilitate compliance with the law may entail substantial expense and the diversion of engineering resources from other projects.
If we are unable to engineer products that meet Microsoft’s legal duties or help our customers meet their obligations under the GDPR or other data regulations, we might experience reduced demand for our offerings.
Compliance with data regulations might limit our ability to innovate or offer certain features and functionality in some jurisdictions where we operate.
Non-compliance with the GDPR may lead to regulatory enforcement actions, which can result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue, or private lawsuits.
Ongoing legal reviews by regulators may result in burdensome or inconsistent requirements affecting the location and movement of our customer and internal employee data as well as the management of that data.
Compliance may require changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms.
Failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity.
Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees.
Our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees.
The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive.
We are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws.
Changes to U.S. immigration policies that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent may inhibit our ability to adequately staff our research and development efforts.
If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected.
Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success.
Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution.
How employment-related laws are interpreted and applied to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs.
We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes.
We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits.
These claims may arise from a wide variety of business practices and initiatives, including major new product releases such as Windows 10, significant business transactions, warranty or product claims, and employment practices.
Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business.
The litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future.
A material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable.
We may have additional tax liabilities.
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes.
In the course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
For example, compliance with the 2017 United States Tax Cut and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) may require the collection of information not regularly produced within the Company, the use of estimates in our financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions.
As regulations and guidance evolve with respect to TCJA, and as we gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our financial position.
We regularly are under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions.
Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult.
Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation in the jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals.
The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements in the period or periods in which that determination is made.
We earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the U.S.; a change in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our business or structure, or the expiration of or disputes about certain tax agreements in a particular country may result in higher effective tax rates for the Company.
In addition, changes in U.S. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, other fundamental law changes currently being considered by many countries, including in the U.S., and changes in taxing jurisdictions’ administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions may materially adversely impact our tax expense and cash flows.
PART II
Item 1A
We may experience quality or supply problems.
Our vertically-integrated hardware products such as Xbox consoles, Surface devices, and other devices we design, manufacture, and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software.
We could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm as a result of recalls, safety alerts, or product liability claims if we fail to prevent, detect, or address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs.
Our software products also may experience quality or reliability problems.
The highly-sophisticated software products we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation.
Any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability.
Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge.
We acquire some device and datacenter components from sole suppliers.
Our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity available to us.
If a component from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity constraint or industry shortages, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales or inadequate datacenter capacity.
Component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue.
Xbox consoles, Surface devices, datacenter servers, and other hardware are assembled in Asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins.
These same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer.
We strive to empower all people and organizations to achieve more, and accessibility of our products is an important aspect of this goal.
There is increasing pressure from advocacy groups, regulators, competitors, and customers to make technology more accessible.
If our products do not meet customer expectations or emerging global accessibility requirements, we could lose sales opportunities or face regulatory actions.
Our global business exposes us to operational and economic risks.
Our customers are located in over 200 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales.
The global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks.
Emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy.
The developing nature of these markets presents several risks, including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations.
Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenue.
Competitive or regulatory pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the U.S. and other countries.
Catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business.
A disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions.
Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in the Seattle, Washington area, and we have other business operations in the Silicon Valley area of California, both of which are seismically active regions.
A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or IT systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations.
Providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results.
Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs.
These conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers.
Geopolitical change may result in changing regulatory requirements that could impact our operating strategies, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability.
Geopolitical instability may lead to sanctions and impact our ability to do business in some markets or with some public-sector customers.
Emerging nationalist trends in specific countries may significantly alter the trade environment.
Changes to trade policy or agreements may result in higher tariffs, local sourcing initiatives, or other developments that make it more difficult to sell our products in foreign countries.
Any of these changes may negatively impact our revenues.
PART II
Item 1A
The long-term effects of climate change on the global economy or the IT industry in particular are unclear.
Environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy or other natural resources may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business.
Changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services.
Adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business.
Worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may cause lower IT spending and adversely affect our revenue.
If demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected.
Substantial revenue comes from our U.S. government contracts.
An extended federal government shutdown resulting from failing to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or raise the debt ceiling, and other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government IT spending on our products and services and adversely affect our revenue.
Our product distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network.
OEMs building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution.
The impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, OEM, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption.
Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased.
As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase.
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets.
A significant part of our investment portfolio comprises U.S. government securities.
If global credit and equity markets decline for long periods, or if there is a downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results.
Changes in our sales organization may impact revenues.
In July 2017, we announced plans to reorganize our global sales organization to help enable customers’ digital transformation, add greater technical ability to our sales force, and create pooled resources that can be used across countries and industries.
The reorganization is the most significant change in our global sales organization in Microsoft’s history, involving employees changing roles, adding additional talent, realigning teams, and onboarding new partners.
Successfully executing these changes will be a significant factor in enabling future revenue growth.
As we navigate through this transition, sales, profitability, and cash flow could be adversely impacted.
PART II
