Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations









•Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our liquidity and financial condition.



•Contractual and Other Obligations. An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.



The discussion of financial condition and results of our operations that follows provides information that will assist the reader in understanding our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document.



OVERVIEW





•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes. Additionally, we are investing in premium form factors such as convertible notebooks to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices. We have increased our focus on Device as a Service as the market begins to shift to contractual solutions. We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.



•In Printing, our strategic growth focus is on shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace. The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on MPS and Instant Ink, supporting our strategy of placing higher value printer units (including our A3 products and solutions) which offer strong annuity of toner and ink. In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings, which support accelerated growth in our Graphic solutions. We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models.



We continue to experience challenges that are representative of trends and uncertainties that may affect our business and results of operations. One set of challenges relates to dynamic market trends, such as forecasted declining PC Client markets and home printing markets. A second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. Our primary competitors are exerting competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution in an evolving distribution and reseller landscape, with increasing omnichannel presence.



•In Personal Systems, we face challenges with industry component availability.



HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



•In Printing, we obtain many components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. For instance, we source the majority of our A4 and a portion of our A3 portfolio of laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges from Canon. Any decision by either party to not renew our agreement with Canon or to limit or reduce the scope of the agreement could adversely affect our net revenue from LaserJet products; however, we have a long-standing business relationship with Canon and anticipate renewal of this agreement. We are also seeing increases in commodity costs impacting our bill of materials.



Our business and financial performance also depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Accordingly, we face global macroeconomic challenges, tariff-driven headwinds, uncertainty in the markets, volatility in exchange rates, weaker macroeconomic conditions and evolving dynamics in the global trade environment. The impact of these and other global macroeconomic challenges on our business cannot be known at this time.



To address these challenges, we continue to pursue innovation with a view towards developing new products and services aligned with generating market demand and meeting the needs of our customers and partners. In addition, we continue to work on improving our operations, with a particular focus on enhancing our end-to-end processes, analytics and efficiencies. We also continue to work on optimizing our sales coverage models, align our sales incentives with our strategic goals, improve channel execution, strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, and develop and capitalize on market opportunities. 



We typically experience higher net revenues in our fourth quarter compared to other quarters in our fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Historical seasonal patterns should not be considered reliable indicators of our future net revenues or financial performance.



For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could impact our operating results, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018.



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES





Revenue Recognition



We recognize revenue depicting the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we are expected to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. We evaluate customers’ ability to pay based on various factors like historical payment experience, financial metrics and customer credit scores.



We enter into contracts to sell our products and services, and while many of our sales contracts contain standard terms and conditions, there are contracts which contain non-standard terms and conditions. Further, many of our arrangements include multiple performance obligations. As a result, significant contract interpretation may be required to determine the appropriate accounting, including the identification of performance obligations considered to be separate units of accounting, the allocation of the transaction price among performance obligations in the arrangement and the timing of transfer of control of promised goods or services for each of those performance obligations.



We evaluate each performance obligation in an arrangement to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting. A performance obligation constitutes a separate unit of accounting when the customer can benefit from the goods or services either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the customer and the performance obligation is distinct within the context of the contract.



Transaction price is the amount of consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer. If the transaction price includes a variable amount, we estimate the amount using either the expected value or most likely amount method. We reduce the transaction price at the time of revenue recognition for customer and distributor programs and incentive offerings, rebates, promotions, other volume-based incentives and expected returns. We use estimates to determine the expected variable consideration for such programs based on historical experience, expected consumer behavior and market conditions.





HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



separately (“observable price”) and, in some instances, using the price established by management having the relevant authority. When observable price is not available, we establish SSP based on management’s judgment considering internal factors such as margin objectives, pricing practices and controls, customer segment pricing strategies and the product life-cycle. Consideration is also given to market conditions such as competitor pricing strategies and technology industry life cycles. We may modify or develop new go-to-market practices in the future, which may result in changes in selling prices, impacting standalone selling price determination. In most arrangements with multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation at the inception of the arrangement based on their relative selling price. However, the aforementioned factors may result in a different SSP determination applying management judgments and estimates. This may change the pattern and timing of revenue recognition for identical arrangements executed in future periods but will not change the total revenue recognized for any given arrangement.



 Revenue is recognized when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of a promised good or service to a customer. We generally invoice the customer upon delivery of the goods or services and the payments are due as per contract terms. For fixed price support or maintenance and other service contracts that are in the nature of stand-ready obligations, payments are generally received in advance from customers and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over time for the duration of the contract. In instances when revenue is derived from sales of third-party vendor products or services, we record revenue on a gross basis when we are a principal in the transaction and on a net basis when we are acting as an agent between the customer and the vendor. We consider several factors to determine whether we are acting as a principal or an agent, most notably whether we are the primary obligor to the customer, have established our own pricing and have inventory and credit risks.



Taxes on Earnings



The TCJA made significant changes to the U.S. tax law. The TCJA lowered our U.S. statutory federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, while also imposing a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings.



In December 2017, the SEC staff issued SAB No. 118, which allows registrants to record provisional amounts during a one year “measurement period”. In January 2019, we completed our accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA with no material changes to the provisional amounts recorded during the measurement period.



In January 2018, the FASB released guidance on the accounting for tax on the Global Minimum Tax provisions of TCJA. The Global Minimum Tax provisions impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. The guidance indicates that either accounting for deferred taxes related to Global Minimum Tax inclusions or to treat any taxes on Global Minimum Tax inclusions as period cost are both acceptable methods subject to an accounting policy election. We have elected to treat the Global Minimum Tax inclusions as period costs. 



Prior to the enactment of the TCJA, our effective tax rate included the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which we have not provided U.S. federal taxes because we had planned to reinvest such earnings indefinitely outside the United States. We plan distributions of foreign earnings based on projected cash flow needs as well as the working capital and long-term investment requirements of our foreign subsidiaries and domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount we expect to indefinitely invest outside the United States and the amounts we expect to distribute to the United States and provide the U.S. federal taxes due on amounts expected to be distributed to the United States. Further, as a result of certain employment actions and capital investments we have undertaken, income from manufacturing activities in certain jurisdictions is subject to reduced tax rates and, in some cases, is wholly exempt from taxes for fiscal years through 2027.



ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS



For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements see Note 1, “Basis of Presentation”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Revenue from our international operations has historically represented, and we expect will continue to represent, a majority of our overall net revenue. As a result, our net revenue growth has been impacted, and we expect it will continue to be impacted, by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to provide a framework for assessing performance excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we supplement the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue with the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a constant currency basis, which excludes the effect of foreign currency 



HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



exchange fluctuations calculated by translating current period revenues using monthly average exchange rates from the comparative period and hedging activities from the prior-year period and does not adjust for any repricing or demand impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This information is provided so that net revenue can be viewed with and without the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which is consistent with how management evaluates our net revenue results and trends, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of ongoing operating results. The constant currency measures are provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a GAAP basis. Other companies may calculate and define similarly labeled items differently, which may limit the usefulness of this measure for comparative purposes.







Net Revenue



For the three months ended April 30, 2019, total net revenue remained flat (increased 2% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period. U.S. net revenue decreased 1% to $4.6 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 1% to $9.4 billion. The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by growth in Desktops, Notebooks and Commercial Printing Hardware, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts and a decline in Supplies. 



For the six months ended April 30, 2019, total net revenue increased 1% (increased 2% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period. U.S. net revenue decreased 1% to $9.5 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 2% to $19.2 billion. The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Consumer Printing Hardware, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts and decline in Supplies. 



A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment net revenue is included in “Segment Information” below.



Gross Margin



For the three months ended April 30, 2019, our gross margin increased by 0.1 percentage point as compared to the prior-year period. For the six months ended April 30, 2019, our gross margin increased by 0.1 percentage point as compared to the prior-year period. The increase is primarily driven by higher rate in Personal Systems due to lower supply chain costs, partially offset by unfavorable segment mix.



A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment gross margins is included under “Segment Information” below.



Operating Expenses









HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)





Restructuring and Other Charges



Restructuring and other charges for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 relate primarily to the Fiscal 2017 Plan.



Acquisition-Related Charges



Acquisition-related charges for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 relate primarily to third-party professional and legal fees, and integration-related costs.



Amortization of Intangible Assets



Amortization of intangible assets for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 relate primarily to intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions of Samsung’s printer business and the Apogee group.



Interest and Other, Net



Interest and other, net expense decreased by $778 million and $760 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively, as compared to the prior-year period, as Interest and other, net expense for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018 included reversal of indemnification receivables from Hewlett Packard Enterprise pertaining to various audit settlements, and loss on extinguishment of debt.





Our effective tax rate was 11.4% and (1,162%) for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 11.1% and (203%) for the six months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% and our effective tax rate for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 is primarily due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world. For the three and six months ended April 30, 2018 our effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory blended rate of 23% due to transitional impacts of U.S. tax reform and resolution of various audits and tax litigation, partially offset by favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world.



During the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, we recorded $40 million and $49 million, respectively, of net income tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes. These amounts included tax benefits of $42 million and $48 million related to one-time items for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively, and $14 million and $26 million related to restructuring charges for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively. These benefits were partially offset by uncertain tax position charges of $12 million and $32 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively and other charges of $4 million and $14 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively. The six months ended April 30, 2019 also included a tax benefit of $21 million related to final tax reform adjustments. In addition to the discrete items mentioned above, we recorded $20 million of excess tax benefits associated with stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units for the six months ended April 30, 2019.



During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded $1.1 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes. As of April 30, 2018, we had not yet completed our analysis of the full impact of TCJA. However, for the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate. In addition, for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of our U.S. deferred taxes that were expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount due to further analysis and additional guidance. This amount also included tax benefits related to audit settlements of $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively, and loss on extinguishment of debt of $33 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018. These tax benefits were offset by uncertain tax position charges of $8 million and $51 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively. During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, in addition to the discrete items mentioned above, we recorded excess tax benefits of $6 million and $34 million, respectively, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units.



Segment Information



A description of the products and services for each segment can be found in Note 2, “Segment Information” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Future changes to this organizational structure may result in changes to the segments disclosed.



Realignment



HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



 Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we implemented an organizational change to align our business unit financial reporting more closely with our current business structure. The organizational change resulted in the transfer of certain Samsung-branded product categories from Commercial to Consumer within the Printing segment. We reflected this change to our business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis. The reporting change had no impact to previously reported segment net revenue, consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net EPS.



Personal Systems









Three months ended April 30, 2019 compared with three months ended April 30, 2018



Personal Systems net revenue increased 1.8% (increased 4.7% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period. The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Desktops, Notebooks and Workstations, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts. The net revenue increase was driven by a 3.3% increase in average selling prices (“ASPs”), partially offset by a 1.5% decrease in unit volume, as compared to the prior-year period. The increase in ASPs was due to higher pricing and positive mix shifts, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts. The decrease in unit volume was primarily due to decline in Consumer units driven by demand weakness, partially offset by an increase in Commercial units. Consequently, Commercial revenue increased 6.7% and Consumer revenue decreased 9.1% for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period. 



Net revenue increased 6.8% in Desktops and 5.8% in Workstations and decreased 1.0% in Notebooks as compared to the prior-year period.



Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.5 percentage points for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period. The increase was primarily due to an increase in gross margin, primarily due to higher ASPs and lower supply chain costs.



Six months ended April 30, 2019 compared with six months ended April 30, 2018



Personal Systems net revenue increased 2.1% (increased 4.1% on a constant currency basis) for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period. The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts. The net revenue increase was driven by a 4.5% increase in ASPs, partially offset by a 2.3% decrease in unit volume, as compared to the prior-year period. The increase in ASPs was due to positive mix shifts and higher pricing, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts. The decrease in unit volume was primarily due to decline in Consumer units driven by demand weakness, partially offset by an increase in Commercial units. Consequently, Commercial revenue increased 4.8% and Consumer revenue decreased 3.3% for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period. 



Net revenue increased 2.5% in Notebooks, 1.6% in Desktops and 4.6% in Workstations as compared to the prior-year period.



HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.7 percentage points for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period. The increase was primarily due to an increase in gross margin, primarily due to higher ASPs and lower supply chain costs.



Printing









Three months ended April 30, 2019 compared with three months ended April 30, 2018



Printing net revenue decreased 2.4% (decreased 1.7% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period. The decline in net revenue was primarily driven by declines in Supplies and Consumer Hardware, partially offset by an increase in Commercial Hardware. Net revenue for Supplies decreased 3.0% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to demand weakness. Printer unit volume decreased 3.8% and ASPs decreased 2.0% as compared to the prior-year period. The decrease in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit decreases in Consumer Hardware. Printer ASPs decreased primarily due to higher discounting.



Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 3.0% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to the acquisition of the Apogee group.



Net revenue for Consumer Hardware decreased 8.5% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 4.0% decrease in printer unit volume and 5.6% decrease in ASPs. The unit volume decrease was primarily driven by the Inkjet Home Consumer and LaserJet Home Business. The decrease in ASPs was primarily driven by higher discounting.



Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.4 percentage points for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to decrease in operating expenses. Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to operating expense spend favorability.



Six months ended April 30, 2019 compared with six months ended April 30, 2018



Printing net revenue decreased 1.4% (decreased 1.2% on a constant currency basis) for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period. The decline in net revenue was primarily driven by a decline in Supplies partially offset by an increase in Commercial Hardware. Net revenue for Supplies decreased 2.8% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to demand weakness. Printer unit volume decreased 0.6% and ASPs decreased 2.5% as compared to the prior-year period. The decrease in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit decrease in Consumer Hardware. Printer ASPs decreased primarily due to higher discounting.



Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 4.0% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to the acquisition of the Apogee group.



HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



Net revenue for Consumer Hardware decreased 3.3% as compared to the prior-year period, due to a 0.7% decrease in printer unit volume and by 3.3% decrease in ASPs. The unit volume decrease was primarily driven by the InkJet Home Consumer Business. The decrease in ASPs was primarily driven by higher discounting.



Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.4 percentage points for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to decrease in operating expenses, partially offset by decline in gross margin. The gross margin decrease was primarily driven by lower Supplies mix. Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to operating expense spend favorability.



Corporate Investments



The loss from operations in Corporate Investments for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 was primarily due to expenses associated with our incubation projects.



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



We use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity. We believe that internally generated cash flows are generally sufficient to support our operating businesses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, restructuring activities, maturing debt, income tax payments and the payment of stockholder dividends, in addition to investments and share repurchases. We are able to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions. While our access to capital markets may be constrained and our cost of borrowing may increase under certain business, market and economic conditions, our access to a variety of funding sources to meet our liquidity needs is designed to facilitate continued access to capital resources under all such conditions. Our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks identified in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 and the market risks identified in the section entitled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 3 of Part I of this report, which are incorporated herein by reference.



Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with the majority of those amounts held outside of the United States. We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed. Our cash position remains strong, and we expect that our cash balances, anticipated cash flow generated from operations and access to capital markets will be sufficient to cover our expected near-term cash outlays.



Amounts held outside of the United States are generally utilized to support non-U.S. liquidity needs and may from time to time be distributed to the United States. The TCJA made significant changes to the U.S. tax law, including a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings. The payments associated with this one-time transition tax will be paid over eight years beginning in the current fiscal year. We expect a significant portion of the cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries will no longer be subject to U.S. income tax consequences upon a subsequent repatriation to the United States as a result of the transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings. However, a portion of this cash may still be subject to foreign income tax or withholding tax consequences upon repatriation. As we evaluate the future cash needs of our operations, we may revise the amount of foreign earnings considered to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries and how to utilize such funds, including reducing our gross debt level, or other uses.



Liquidity







Operating Activities



Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $0.3 billion for the six months ended April 30, 2019, primarily due to working capital management activities.



Working Capital Metrics





HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)





April 30, 2019 as compared to April 30, 2018



The cash conversion cycle is the sum of DSO and DOS less DPO. Items which may cause the cash conversion cycle in a particular period to differ from a long-term sustainable rate include, but are not limited to, changes in business mix, changes in payment terms, extent of receivables factoring, seasonal trends and the timing of revenue recognition and inventory purchases within the period.



DSO measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. DSO is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average net revenue. The increase in DSO was primarily due to unfavorable revenue linearity.



DOS measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. DOS is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average cost of revenue. The decrease in DOS was primarily due to reduction in inventory driven by reclassification of certain balances to other current assets, pursuant to adoption of the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.



DPO measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. DPO is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average cost of revenue. The increase in DPO was primarily due to working capital management activities.



Investing Activities



Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, net cash used in investing activities decreased by $1.1 billion for the six months ended April 30, 2019, primarily due to a decrease in investments classified as available-for-sale investments within Other current assets of $0.6 billion and lower net payments for acquisitions of $0.6 billion.



Financing Activities



Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, net cash used in financing activities decreased by $0.4 billion for the six months ended April 30, 2019, primarily due to lower payment of debt of $1.5 billion partially offset by a decrease in outstanding commercial paper amounts of $0.9 billion.



Capital Resources



Debt Levels



We maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, our cost of capital and targeted capital structure. Outstanding borrowings decreased to $5.0 billion as of April 30, 2019 as compared to $6.0 billion as of October 31, 2018, bearing weighted-average interest rates of 4.7% and 4.3% for April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018, respectively. 



Our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the period and reflects the impact of interest rate swaps. For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 8, “Financial Instruments”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.



As of April 30, 2019, we maintain a senior unsecured committed revolving credit facility with aggregate lending commitments of $4.0 billion, that will be available until March 30, 2023 and is primarily to support the issuance of commercial paper. Funds borrowed under this revolving credit facility may also be used for general corporate purposes.



Available Borrowing Resources





HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)





For more information on our borrowings, see Note 9, “Borrowings”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.



Credit Ratings



Our credit risk is evaluated by major independent rating agencies based upon publicly available information as well as information obtained in our ongoing discussions with them. While we do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our debt, previous downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facility, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper and have required the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. In addition, any further downgrade to our credit ratings by any rating agencies may further impact us in a similar manner, and, depending on the extent of any such downgrade, could have a negative impact on our liquidity and capital position. We can access alternative sources of funding, including drawdowns under our credit facility, if necessary, to offset potential reductions in the market capacity for our commercial paper.



CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER OBLIGATIONS



Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plan Contributions



As of April 30, 2019, we anticipate making contributions for the remainder of fiscal year 2019 of approximately $31 million to our non-U.S. pension plans, $15 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified pension plan participants and $6 million to cover benefit claims for our post-retirement benefit plans. Our policy is to fund our pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government, funding and taxing authorities. For more information on our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 4, “Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.



Cost Savings Plan



We expect to make future cash payments of approximately $207 million in connection with our cost savings plans. For more information on our restructuring activities that are part of our cost improvements, see Note 3, “Restructuring and Other Charges”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.



Uncertain Tax Positions 



As of April 30, 2019, we had approximately $1.4 billion of recorded liabilities and related interest and penalties pertaining to uncertain tax positions. We are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlement with the tax authorities might occur due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. Payments of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities. For more information on our uncertain tax positions, see Note 5, “Taxes on Earnings”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.



Payment of one-time transition taxes under the TCJA



The TCJA made significant changes to U.S. tax law resulting in a one-time gross transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings of $3.3 billion. We expect the actual cash payments for the tax to be much lower as we expect to reduce the overall liability by more than half once existing and future credits and other balance sheet attributes are used. The payments associated with this one-time transition tax will be paid over eight years beginning in the current fiscal year.



OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS



As part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.



We have third-party short-term financing arrangements intended to facilitate the working capital requirements of certain customers. For more information on our third-party short-term financing arrangements, see Note 6, “Supplementary Financial Information”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.





Table of Contents 



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.



Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities



There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities





On June 19, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors authorized $4.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock. This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions. HP intends to use repurchases from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically. All share repurchases settled in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 were open market transactions. As of April 30, 2019, HP had approximately $2.5 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.



