Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
– Contingent consideration is classified as a financing activity pursuant to ASU 2016-15.
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
In this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, Mesa Laboratories, Inc., a Colorado corporation, together with its subsidiaries is collectively referred to as “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa.”
We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators.
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This quarterly report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018.
As of December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, our financial instruments were categorized as Level 1 (inputs are quoted prices in active markets) and include cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and short-term and long-term debt.
With the exception of long-term debt, the carrying value of these financial instruments is considered to be representative of their fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
Our debt has a variable interest rate, so the carrying amount approximates fair value because interest rates on these instruments approximate the interest rate on debt with similar terms available to us.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we completed the purchase of Point Six Wireless, LLC.
We made an initial allocation of the purchase price at the date of acquisition based on our understanding of the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities.
We obtained the information to make the allocation during due diligence and through the use of other information available to us.
In the months after closing, we will obtain additional information about the assets and liabilities acquired, including asset appraisals, and we will refine the estimates of the fair value to more accurately allocate the purchase price.
The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to present financial statement users with the ability to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We expect to adopt the standard using the optional transition method, which will allow us to apply the standard as of the effective date, therefore we will not apply changes to comparative periods presented in our financial statements.
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Release No.
33-10532 that amends and clarifies certain financial reporting requirements.
The principal change to our financial reporting is the inclusion of the annual disclosure requirement of changes in stockholders’ equity in Rule 3-04 of Regulation S-X to interim periods.
Effective April 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all related amendments (referred to collectively hereinafter as “ASU 606”) to all contracts on a modified retrospective basis.
ASU 606 requires an entity to recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount it expects to be entitled to receive for the goods and services.
The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2.
“Revenue Recognition.”
In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05, Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118.
We adopted the ASU immediately upon release.
The amendments also require any provisional amounts or subsequent adjustments to be included in net income from continuing operations.
Additionally, this ASU discusses required disclosures that an entity must make with regard to the TCJA.
Our contracts have varying payment terms and conditions.
Contract assets would exist when sales are recorded (i.e.
the control of the goods or services has been transferred to the customer), but customer payment is contingent on a future event besides the passage of time (such as satisfaction of additional performance obligations).
We do not have any contract assets.
Unbilled receivables, which are not classified as contract assets, represent arrangements in which sales have been recorded prior to billing and right to payment is unconditional.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we performed an impairment analysis on our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment as the segment’s financial results continued to fall short of expectations.
We determined that the long-lived assets and goodwill associated with our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment were impaired and we recognized non-cash impairment charge of $1,028 on goodwill and $2,641 on long-lived assets, in impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations.
The remaining goodwill and intangible assets associated with this segment are $300 and $809, respectively as of December 31, 2018.
The fair value of the impaired assets was determined using Level 3 inputs (unobservable inputs) based on a discounted cash flow method.
In August 2016, we announced that we planned to shut down both our Omaha and Traverse City manufacturing facilities and relocate those operations to the new Bozeman building.
The move of those two facilities, along with the current Bozeman operations, began in March 2017 and was completed as of June 30, 2018.
We completed the sale of our old Bozeman facility during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, for $2,222 (net of commissions) resulting in a gain of $288, which is recorded in other (income) expense, net on our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Note 6.
On March 1, 2017, we entered into a five-year agreement (the “Credit Facility”) for an $80,000 revolving line of credit (“Line of Credit”), a $20,000 term loan (“Term Loan”) and up to $2,500 of letters of credit with a banking syndicate of four banks.
In addition, the Credit Facility provides a post-closing accordion feature which allows for the Company to request to increase the Line of Credit or Term Loan up to an additional $100,000.
The Credit Facility is secured by all of our assets and requires us to maintain a ratio of funded debt to our trailing four quarters of EBIDTA (the “Leverage Ratio”), as defined in the agreement, of less than 3.0 to 1.0, provided that, we may once during the term of the Credit Facility, in connection with a Permitted Acquisition for which the aggregate consideration paid or to be paid in respect thereof equals or exceeds $20,000, elect to increase the maximum Leverage Ratio permitted hereunder to (i) 3.50 to 1.00 for a period of four consecutive fiscal quarters commencing with the fiscal quarter in which such Permitted Acquisition occurs (the “Initial Holiday Period”) and (ii) 3.25 to 1.00 for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters immediately following the Initial Holiday Period.
The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of less than 1.25 to 1.0.
We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2018.
Subsequent to December 2018, we made a $3,000 payment under our line of credit.
Note 7.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we granted restricted stock units (“RSUs”) on 17,458 shares of our common stock to eligible employees.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, 2,000 RSUs vested, and 1,445 RSUs were forfeited or cancelled.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we awarded 11,385 performance share units (“PSUs”) that are subject to both service and performance conditions to eligible employees.
The PSUs had a grant date fair value of $192.99 per share and vest both based on our achievement of specific performance criteria for the three-year period from April 1, 2018 through March 31, 2021, as well as continued service through June 15, 2021.
The quantity of shares that will be issued upon vesting will range from 0 percent to 400 percent of the targeted number of shares; if the defined minimum targets are not met, then no shares will vest.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, 1,050 PSUs were forfeited.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we granted non-qualified stock options (“NQSOs”) on 25,544 shares of common stock to eligible employees.
The weighted-average grant date fair value of the NQSOs was $53.93 per share with a weighted average exercise price of $144.65 per share based on the closing price of the common stock on the date of grant.
We issue shares in connection with stock-based compensation pursuant to the Mesa Laboratories, Inc. 2014 Equity Plan (the “2014 Equity Plan”).
For the purposes of counting the shares remaining as available under the 2014 Incentive Plan, each share issuable pursuant to outstanding full value awards, such as RSUs and PSUs, counts as five shares issued, whereas each share underlying a stock option counts as one share issued.
Under the 2014 Equity Plan, 1,100,000 shares of common stock have been authorized and reserved for eligible participants, of which 611,504 shares were available for future grants as of December 31, 2018.
Each quarter, our estimate of the annual effective tax rate is updated, and if the estimated effective tax rate changes, a cumulative adjustment is made.
Additionally, the tax effects of significant unusual or infrequently occurring items are recognized as discrete items in the interim period in which the events occur.
In total, the TCJA resulted in a net tax expense of $43.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we re-measured the applicable deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse.
Our effective income tax rate was 9.5 percent and (5.3) percent for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively; and 8.6 percent and (18.0) percent for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 differed from the statutory federal rate of 21 percent primarily due to the impact of the state income taxes, share-based payment awards for employees, and the foreign rate differential.
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period.
Diluted earnings per share (“diluted EPS”) is computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that it includes the potential dilution that could occur if dilutive securities were exercised.
Potentially dilutive securities include common shares related to stock options and non-vested stock awards (collectively “stock awards”).
Stock awards are excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS in the event that they are subject to performance conditions or are antidilutive.
In February 2018, Dr. James L. Orrington II filed a purported civil class action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, alleging that we sent unsolicited advertisements to telephone facsimile machines.
The complaint includes counts alleging violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (“TCPA”), the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act, Conversion, Nuisance, and Trespass to Chattels.
The plaintiff seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees.
Additionally, in June 2018, Rowan Family Dentistry, Inc. filed a purported class action complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado making substantially the same claims as Dr. James L. Orrington II and seeking substantially the same relief.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded an expense of $3,300 as an estimate of our potential loss associated with the matter.
In January 2019, we received preliminary court approval of a class action settlement with Dr. James L. Orrington II in the amount of $3,300.
Intersegment revenues are not significant and are eliminated to arrive at consolidated totals.
As of December 31, 2018, all long-lived assets are located in the United States except for $5,952, $2,471 and $15,130 which are associated with our French, Canadian, and German subsidiaries, respectively.
In January 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock, payable on March 15, 2019, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 28, 2019.
See Note 10.
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.
“Financial Statements.” for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved.
Item 1A.
