We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services, which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements. We prefer markets in which we can establish a strong presence and achieve high gross margins. We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations. Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (“SDC” Division) manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators. Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries. The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry. Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries. Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments. Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products. 
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we completed a business combination (the “Point Six Wireless Acquisition”) whereby we acquired substantially all of the assets (other than current assets) and certain liabilities of Point Six Wireless, LLC’s continuous monitoring business. 
Our strategic objectives include growth both organically and through further acquisitions. During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations), which was completed as of December 31, 2018. 
The markets for sterilization and disinfection control products remain strong, as the disposable nature of these products makes them less sensitive to general economic conditions. The worldwide market for sterilization and disinfection control products is growing as more countries focus on verifying the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes. 
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we performed a financial analysis of the Cold Chain Packaging Division, which revealed that gross profits for the segment continue to decline, primarily due to rising commodity costs. As a result, we performed an impairment test on the reporting segment, and recognized non-cash impairment charges of $1,028 on goodwill and $2,641 on long-lived assets, in impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. 
Cold Chain Monitoring revenues increased 15 percent and six percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, primarily as a result of organic revenues growth. Revenues in this division fluctuate quarter over quarter due to the timing of performance obligations and the nature and timing of orders and installations within any given quarter. 
Cold Chain Packaging revenues increased 29 percent and 26 percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, as a result of the normalization in the order rate of the division’s largest customer.  
Sterilization and Disinfection Control gross profit margin percentage increased for both the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 primarily as a result of $150 and $503 of moving expenses related to the Bozeman facility that were incurred during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively. Excluding the impact of the moving expenses, gross margin percentage for both periods was essentially flat as compared to the prior year. 
Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased during the three months ended December 31, 2018 primarily due to $1,700 of inventory reserve expense recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2017; excluding the impact of the reserve in the comparable period, gross margin percentage decreased as a result of timing of orders and unfavorable product mix variations. Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to $1,916 of inventory reserve expense recorded in the nine months ended December 31, 2017. Excluding the impact of the inventory reserve charge in the comparable period, gross profit margin percentage was flat as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2017. 
Selling expense is driven primarily by labor costs, including salaries and commissions; accordingly, it may vary with sales levels. Selling expense increased six percent for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and decreased 17 percent for the nine months ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to timing of the reduction and replacement of selling personnel. As a percentage of revenues, selling expense was eight percent and seven percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, as compared to eight percent and ten percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively. We plan to continue to strategically reinvest in sales and marketing resources in an effort to further increase organic revenues growth. 
Labor costs, including non-cash stock-based compensation, and amortization of intangible assets drive the substantial majority of general and administrative expense. General and administrative expenses increased $1,475 during the three months ended December 31, 2018, due primarily to increased incentive-based compensation as a result of the Company’s financial performance and higher salary expense. General and administrative costs increased $3,299 during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, due primarily to increased incentive-based compensation as a result of the Company’s financial performance and increases in non-cash stock-based compensation expense. We expect to incrementally increase our headcount in the future as we continue to invest in future organic revenues growth. 
Research and development expense is predominantly comprised of labor costs and third-party consultants. Research and development expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased 14 percent and for the nine months ended December 31, 2018, decreased nine percent, due to streamlining the necessary engineers, materials, and supplies required to support existing businesses in the prior year. During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we began to make incremental investments in research and development to enhance existing products. 
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded impairment expense of $3,669 related to goodwill and long-lived assets associated with our Cold Chain Packaging Division. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, we recorded impairment expense of $13,819 related to goodwill associated with our Cold Chain Packaging Division. See General Trends above for additional discussion. 
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded a $3,300 estimated legal settlement expense; see Note 10. “Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1. Financial Statements. 
Our income tax rate varies based upon many factors but in general, we anticipate that on a go-forward basis, our effective tax rate will be approximately 26 percent, plus or minus the impact of excess tax benefits and deficiencies associated with share-based payment awards to employees; see Note 8. “Income Taxes” within Item 1. Financial Statements for additional discussion. The excess tax benefits and deficiencies associated with share-based payment awards to our employees have caused and, in the future, may cause large fluctuations in our realized effective tax rate based on timing, volume, and nature of stock options exercised under our share-based payment program. Net income for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 varied with the changes in revenues, gross profit, and operating expenses (which includes $5,418 and $2,424 of non-cash amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation, respectively). Net income for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 was also significantly impacted by a $3,669 impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets (see Note 3. “Impairment Loss on Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets” within Item 1. Financial Statements. 
Our sources of liquidity include cash generated from operations, working capital, capacity under our Credit Facility, and potential equity and debt offerings. We believe that cash generated from these sources will be sufficient to meet our short-term and long-term needs. Our more significant uses of resources have historically included long-term capital equipment expenditures, payment of debt obligations, quarterly dividends to shareholders, and acquisitions. Working capital is the amount by which current assets exceed current liabilities. We had working capital of $11,778 and $14,698 at December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively. 
Subsequent to December 2018, we made a $3,000 payment under our line of credit. 
As of June 30, 2018, our previously-announced move of our Omaha, Traverse City, and old Bozeman manufacturing facilities to our new facility in Bozeman, Montana was complete. We also completed the sale of our old Bozeman facility during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, which resulted in a gain of $288. 
We have recorded an estimated litigation accrual of $3,300, which we expect to pay over the next twelve months; see Note 10. “Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1. Financial Statements. 
We have paid regular quarterly dividends since 2003. We declared and paid dividends of $0.16 per share for the three months ended June 30, 2018, September 30, 2018, and December 31, 2018 as well as each quarter for the year ending March 31, 2018. 
In January 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock, payable on March 15, 2019, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 28, 2019. 
At December 31, 2018, we had contractual obligations for open purchase orders of approximately $3,823 for routine purchases of supplies and inventory, which are payable in less than one year. 
Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
On November 7, 2005, our Board of Directors adopted a share repurchase plan which allows for the repurchase of up to 300,000 of our common shares, of which 162,486 have been purchased to date. This plan will continue until the maximum is reached or the plan is terminated by further action of the Board of Directors. We have made no repurchases of our common stock in the current or any of the last three fiscal years. 
