item1.txt
The Company sells its products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers, e-tailers and indirect sales through distributors.
They should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 21, 2018.
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented.
Operating results for the three months ended June 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, or any future periods.
Certain amounts from the comparative period in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the condensed consolidated financial statement presentation as of and for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below under Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, there have been no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer incentive, cooperative marketing, and pricing programs ("Customer Programs") and related breakage when appropriate, accrued revenue reserve from returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, contingent consideration from business acquisitions and periodical reassessment of its fair value, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the Company in the future, actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
As a result, upon adoption of Topic 606, estimated breakage for accruals of certain Customer Programs is recognized sooner as compared to Topic 605.
•Under Topic 605, revenue reserves for certain Customer Programs totaling $76.7 million, which were estimated using portfolio approach based on aggregated customer level, were included within accounts receivable, net as of March 31, 2018.
Subsequent to the adoption of Topic 606, such balances are presented as accrued customer marketing, pricing and incentive programs included in accrued and other current liabilities.
Certain balances of allowances for sales return and accruals for Customer Programs which were accrued based on Customer Program offers made to individual customer, met the right of offset criteria in accordance with ASC 210-20, "Balance Sheet (Topic 210)", and are still included within accounts receivable, net.
ASU 2016-01 requires entities to measure equity instruments at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value within the statement of operations.
The Company elected the measurement alternative to record these investments at cost and to adjust for impairments and observable price changes with a same or similar security from the same issuer within the statement of operations.


item2.txt
Our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 15% compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, due to stronger net sales across all regions.
Our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 13%, 7% and 28% in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 30 basis points to 36.8% from 36.5% for the three months ended June 30, 2017 as a result of a one-time benefit of approximately 60 basis points from a legal settlement with our prior distribution center supplier in the Americas as well as favorable exchange rates and product cost savings.
Operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 were $191.5 million, or 31.5% of net sales, compared to $162.2 million, or 30.6% of net sales, in the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by $26.5 million higher personnel-related cost due to restructuring charges in the current period, increased variable compensation linked to stronger performance and additional headcount from prior business acquisitions.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Based on currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.
However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period.
Such variance may affect our growth, our previous outlook and expectations, and comparisons of our operating results and financial statements between periods.
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories.
We may not achieve the cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these efforts, and the success or failure of such efforts may cause our operating results to fluctuate and to be difficult to predict.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited.
If we fail to innovate and develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner for our new and existing product categories, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive.


