fls.txt



item1.txt
Logitech International S.A, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, ("Logitech" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets products that allow people to connect through music, gaming, video, computing, and other digital platforms.
The Company sells its products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers and indirect sales through distributors.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
They should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 26, 2017.
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented.
Operating results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018, or any future periods.
Certain amounts from the comparative period in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the condensed consolidated financial statement presentation as of and for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below, there have been no substantial changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer programs and related breakage when appropriate, sales return reserves, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, contingent consideration from business acquisitions and periodical reassessment of its fair value, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
Topic 330 previously required an entity to measure inventory at the lower of cost or market, with market value represented by replacement cost, net realizable value or net realizable value less a normal profit margin.
The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
Our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased 22% and 15%, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, due to stronger net sales across all regions.
For the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, ASTRO contributed $33.5 million and $36.2 million to net sales, respectively, representing approximately 4% of our net sales for the three-month period and 2% for the nine-month period.
Our net sales for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased 31%, 9% and 25% in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our net sales for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased 18%, 8% and 22% in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our gross margin for the three months ended December 31, 2017 decreased to 33.9% from 37.0% for the three months ended December 31, 2016.


item3.txt
We are exposed to currency exchange rate risk as we transact business in multiple currencies, including exposure related to anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.


item4.txt
The Company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) (“Disclosure Controls”) as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this “Report”) required by Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b).


part2.txt
Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors.
•We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders, because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers.
This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results.
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited.
Our product categories are characterized by short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology, dynamic consumer demand and evolving industry standards.
As a result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive.
•Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers.


