item1.txt
The Company sells its products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers and e-tailers and indirect sales through distributors.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
They should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 21, 2018.
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented.
Operating results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, or any future periods.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below under Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, there have been no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing, and pricing programs ("Customer Programs") and related breakage when appropriate, accrued revenue reserve from returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, contingent consideration from business acquisitions and periodical reassessment of its fair value, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the Company in the future, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
ASU 2014-09 outlines a new, single, comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
The new standard requires reporting companies to disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
On April 1, 2018, the Company adopted the new standard and all related amendments using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of April 1, 2018.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, the Company a) recorded a reduction to retained earnings as of April 1, 2018; and b) reclassified certain allowances for sales returns and certain other Customer Programs from accounts receivable, net to accrued and other current liabilities and other current assets.
The Company is required to estimate the accruals for these programs ahead of commitment date if customary business practice creates an implied expectation that such activities will occur in the future.
As a result, upon adoption of Topic 606, estimated breakage for accruals of certain Customer Programs is recognized sooner as compared to Topic 605.


item2.txt
Our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 increased 6% and 10%, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, supported by stronger net sales in Asia Pacific.
Our net sales for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased 1%, 6%, and 18% in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our net sales for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 increased 7%, 4% and 23% in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our gross margin for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased 360 basis points to 37.5% from 33.9% for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
In addition, an increase in logistics costs, including additional costs from the transition of the distribution center in North America in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018, negatively affected the gross margin of that prior year period by approximately 150 basis points.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Based on currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.
However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period.
Such variance may affect our growth, our previous outlook and expectations, and comparisons of our operating results and financial statements between periods.
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories.
We may not achieve the cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these efforts, and the success or failure of such efforts may cause our operating results to fluctuate and to be difficult to predict.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited.
If we fail to innovate and develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner for our new and existing product categories, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
Our product categories are characterized by short product life cycles, intense competition, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology, dynamic consumer demand and evolving industry standards.


