Item 1.
Financial Statements
CSP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
CSP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
CSP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
CSP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
CSP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
CSP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016
Organization and Business
CSP Inc. ("CSPI" or "the Company" or "we" or "our") was incorporated in 1968 and is based in Lowell, Massachusetts.
To meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide, CSPI and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security and managed services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
1.
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company, without audit, and reflect all adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair statement of the results of the interim periods presented.
All adjustments were of a normal recurring nature.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the annual consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, have been omitted.
Accordingly, the Company believes that although the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading, the unaudited consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the footnotes contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
2.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period, including estimates and assumptions related to reserves for bad debt, reserves for inventory obsolescence, the impairment assessment of intangible assets, the calculation of estimated selling price and post-delivery support obligations used for revenue recognition, the calculation of liabilities related to deferred compensation and retirement plans and the calculation of income tax liabilities.
Actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
3.
Earnings Per Share of Common Stock
Basic net income per common share is computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted net income per common share reflects the maximum dilution that would have resulted from the assumed exercise and share repurchase related to dilutive stock options and is computed by dividing net income by the assumed weighted average number of common shares outstanding.
We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.
Non-vested restricted stock awards of 170,000 and 149,000 shares were excluded from the diluted income per share calculation for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively, as there was a net loss and their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.
Finished goods includes inventory that has been shipped, but for which all revenue recognition criteria has not been met, of approximately $0.1 million and $0.4 million as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Total inventory balances in the table above are shown net of reserves for obsolescence of approximately $3.2 million and $3.1 million as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Deferred costs represent costs of labor, third party maintenance and support contracts, and outside consultants related to transactions where the revenue recognition criteria has not been met.
6.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
On December 22, 2017, the United States enacted tax reform legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”), resulting in significant modifications to existing law.
The Company follows the guidance in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (“SAB 118”), which provides additional clarification regarding the application of ASC Topic 740 in situations where the Company does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Act for the reporting period in which the Act was enacted.
SAB 118 provides for a measurement period beginning in the reporting period that includes the Act’s enactment date and ending when the Company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information needed in order to complete the accounting requirements but in no circumstances should the measurement period extend beyond one year from the enactment date.
During the first quarter ended December 31, 2017, the Company recognized a provision for income taxes of $1.1 million that includes a provisional estimate in the amount of $649 thousand related to the one-time deemed repatriation transition tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings.
The provisional amount is based on information currently available, including estimated tax earnings and profits from foreign investments.
The Company continues to gather and analyze information, including historical adjustments to earnings and profits of foreign subsidiaries, in order to complete the accounting for the effects of the estimated transition tax.
This expense has been recorded discretely in the quarter ending December 31, 2017.
The Company has also recorded a provisional estimate for a one-time tax expense of $490 thousand which consists primarily of the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities from 34% to 21%.
This expense has also been recorded discretely in the quarter ending December 31, 2017.
The Company is using a blended federal rate of roughly 24% for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018 and will use the 21% for periods after fiscal year 2018.
The provisions above are estimates, and accordingly, changes to these estimates will be recorded in subsequent quarters as more information and guidance becomes available.
Given the timing of enactment and the breadth and complexity of the legislation, additional time is needed to obtain, prepare and analyze information related to possible income tax effects of other legislative changes as a result of the Act.
8.
Pension and Retirement Plans
The Company has defined benefit and defined contribution plans in the United Kingdom, Germany and the U.S.
In the United Kingdom and Germany, the Company provides defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for some of its employees.
In the U.S., the Company provides benefits through supplemental retirement plans to certain former employees.
The domestic supplemental retirement plans have life insurance policies which are not plan assets but were purchased by the Company as a vehicle to fund the costs of the plan.
Domestically, the Company also provides for officer death benefits through post-retirement plans to certain officers.
All of the Company’s defined benefit plans are closed to newly hired employees and have been since September 2009.
The Company funds its pension plans in amounts sufficient to meet the requirements set forth in applicable employee benefits laws and local tax laws.
Liabilities for amounts in excess of these funding levels are accrued and reported in the consolidated balance sheets.
The Company's pension plan in the United Kingdom is the only plan with plan assets.
The plan assets consist of an investment in a commingled fund which in turn comprises a diversified mix of assets including corporate equity securities, government securities and corporate debt securities.
The following tables presents certain operating segment information for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016.
The following table lists customers from which the Company derived revenues in excess of 10% of total revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017, and 2016.
In addition, accounts receivable from Customer A totaled approximately $1.0 million, or 5%, and approximately $2.4 million, or 9%, of total consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Accounts receivable from Customer B totaled approximately $3.3 million, or 16%, and approximately $3.9 million, or 14%, of total consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Two additional customers, C and D, each accounted for account receivable of 10% or more, but did not account for revenue of 10% or more.
Accounts receivable from customer C totaled approximately $2.8 million, or 13%, of consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.
Accounts receivable from customer D totaled approximately $2.3 million, or 11%, of consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.
We believe that the Company is not exposed to any significant credit risk with respect to the accounts receivable with these customers as of December 31, 2017.
No other customers accounted for 10% or more of total consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.
On December 19, 2017, the Company's board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.11 per share which was paid on January 16, 2018 to shareholders of record as of December 29, 2017, the record date.
11.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Accounting standards recently adopted
Effective September 30, 2017, the Company adopted FASB ASU No.
2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
The ASU has added additional disclosure requirements to the codification.
It requires management to assess, at each interim and annual reporting period, whether substantial doubt exists about an entity’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Substantial doubt exists if it is probable (the “probable” threshold under GAAP has generally been interpreted to be between 75 and 80 percent) that the entity will be unable to meet its obligations as they become due within one year after the date the financial statements are issued or available to be issued (assessment date).
This guidance did not have an impact to the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No, 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes, which require that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position.
The amendments in this Topic apply to all entities that present a classified statement of financial position.
The current requirement that deferred tax liabilities and assets of a tax-paying component of an entity be offset and presented as a single amount is not affected by the amendments in this Topic.
The amendments in this Topic are effective for financial statements issued for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods.
Beginning October 1, 2017, the Company adopted the ASU and it hasn’t had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
As a result of the adoption of this ASU, the Company reclassified the current deferred tax asset previously reported on the September 30, 2017 balance sheet to the noncurrent deferred tax asset.
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-09 (Topic 718), Compensation - Stock Compensation, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
Additionally, the amendments eliminate the guidance in Topic 718 that was indefinitely deferred shortly after the issuance of FASB Statement No.
123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment.
This should not result in a change in practice because the guidance that is being superseded was never effective.
The Company has adopted this ASU effective October 1, 2017 and it hasn’t had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
New accounting standards not adopted as of December 31, 2017
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective.
The new standard is effective for the Company on October 1, 2018, and it does not plan to early adopt this ASU.
The standard outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within a contract are satisfied.
The standard also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
We are utilizing a bottom-up approach to analyze the standard's impact on our contract portfolio, comparing our historical accounting policies and practices, and identifying potential differences from applying the requirements of the new standard to our contracts.
While this assessment continues, we have not yet completed our determination of the impacts of the standard or the effect of these impacts on our consolidated financial statements.
The Company has selected the modified retrospective approach as its transition method.
Because the new standard will impact our business processes, systems and controls, we are developing a comprehensive change management project plan to guide the implementation.
In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.
2015-11, Inventory (Topic 330) Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, which requires entities to measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value, except for inventory measured using last-in, first-out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and requires prospective application, with early adoption permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period.
The Company has not yet assessed the potential impact of implementing this ASU on our consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and lease liability for most lease arrangements.
The new standard is effective for the Company on October 1, 2019.
The standard mandates a modified retrospective transition method for all entities and early adoption is permitted.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-08 (Topic 606), Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) to clarify the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations.
The amendments in this update provides additional guidance on indicators to assist an entity in determining whether it controls a specified good or service before it is transferred to the customer and does not change the core principle of previously issued guidance.
The amendments in this Topic are effective for financial statements issued for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods.
The Company does not expect the implementation of this ASU to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU will reduce diversity in practice for classifying cash payments and receipts in the statement of cash flows for a number of common transactions.
It will also clarify when identifiable cash flows should be separated versus classified based on their predominant source or use.
This ASU is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period.
If an entity early adopts the amendments in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period.
An entity that elects early adoption must adopt all of the amendments in the same period.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU requires the seller and buyer to recognize at the transaction date the current and deferred income tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers (except transfers of inventory).
Under current GAAP, the seller and buyer defer the consolidated tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer from the period of the transfer to a future period when the asset is transferred out of the consolidated group, or otherwise affects consolidated earnings.
This standard will cause volatility in companies’ effective tax rates, particularly for those that transfer intangible assets to foreign subsidiaries.
For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual and interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017.
An entity may early adopt the standard but only at the beginning of an annual period for which it has not issued or made available for issuance financial statements (interim or annual).
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-16 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In January 2017, FASB issued ASU No.
2017-01, “Business Combinations Clarifying the Definition of a Business" (Topic 805) (“ASU No.
2017-01”).
ASU 2017-01 provides a framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities is a business.
ASU 2017-01 provides more consistency in applying the business combination guidance, reduces the costs of application, and makes the definition of a business more operable.
ASU 2017-01 is effective for interim and annual periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact ASU 2017-01 will have on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and disclosures.
capitalization.
For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period.
Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual period for which financial statements (interim or annual) have not been issued or made available for issuance.
This ASU should be applied retrospectively for the presentation of the service cost component and the other components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the income statement and prospectively, on and after the effective date, for the capitalization of the service cost component of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit in assets.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2017-07 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
