Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Forward-Looking Statements
The discussion below contains certain forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, among others, statements concerning future revenues and future business plans.
Forward-looking statements include statements in which we use words such as “expect”, “believe”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “project”, “estimate”, “should”, “could”, “may”, “plan”, “potential”, “predict”, “project”, “will”, “would” and similar expressions.
Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, the forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and thus we cannot assure you that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary from those contained in such forward-looking statements.
We discuss many of these risks and uncertainties in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
Factors that may cause such variances include, but are not limited to, our dependence on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, our high dependence on contracts with the U.S. federal government, our reliance in certain circumstances on single sources for supply of key product components, intense competition in the market segments in which we operate, the recent sale of our German operations in our TS segment, and the recent changes in the U.S. Tax laws.
Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
Also, forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this document.
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
This management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this filing and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
Critical Accounting Policies
Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to uncollectible receivables, inventory valuation, impairment assessment of intangibles, income taxes, deferred compensation and retirement plans, as well as estimated selling prices used for revenue recognition and contingencies.
We base our estimates on historical performance and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
A description of our critical accounting policies is contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 2018 in the “Critical Accounting Policies” section contained in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Due to adoption of ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), our revenue recognition policy has changed effective October 1, 2018 and is included in Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
See Note 12 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.
Discontinued Operations
On July 31, 2018, we completed the sale of all of the outstanding stock of our Germany division of our TS segment.
The one time gain recorded due to the sale of all the stock of Modcomp GmbH was approximately $16.8 million.
No income taxes were provided as the transaction was a tax-free exchange in the U.K.
The Modcomp GmbH's results have been recorded as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.
Overview of the three months ended December 31, 2018
Our revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million, or 14%, to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in overall revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the prior fiscal year three month period was substantially the result of an approximately $2.8 million increase in our TS segment revenue, partially offset by an approximately $0.4 million decrease in our HPP segment revenue.
The TS segment revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 was primarily impacted by the fulfillment of several large product orders in the U.S. division and increased volume in services revenue, which was partially offset by the reduction of sales from a major customer in the U.K. division.
The HPP segment revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 was primarily impacted by lower royalties recognized by approximately $0.5 million on high-speed processing boards during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three month period ended December 31, 2017.
Our overall gross margin percentage decreased to 23% of revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 from 26% of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
Our operating income decreased by approximately $150 thousand resulting in operating income of $15 thousand for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to operating income of $165 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of increased selling and marketing expenses and increased engineering expenses for the three month period ended December 31, 2018.
Our income tax expense decreased by approximately $1.2 million to an income tax expense of $2 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
The decrease to the income tax expense was primarily due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which was enacted on December 22, 2017.
Revenues
 Our total revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in HPP product revenues for the period of $0.1 million was primarily the result of an increase of approximately $0.4 million in Multicomputer product line shipments, partially due to shipments of parts related to the E2D program, partially offset by a decrease in Myricom product line shipments of $0.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The decrease in HPP services revenues of $0.6 million for the period was primarily the result of a decrease of approximately $0.5 million in royalty revenues on high-speed processing boards related to the E2D program during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in TS segment product revenues of $1.9 million during the period was primarily the result of an increase in product revenues of $2.7 million in our U.S. division, partially offset by a decrease in product revenues of $0.8 million in our U.K division.
The $2.7 million increase in the U.S. division product revenues was primarily the result of several completed large product orders and the $0.8 million decrease in the U.K. was due to the reduction of sales from one major customer.
The increase in TS segment service revenues of $0.9 million during the period was primarily the result of an increase in service revenue of $1.0 million in our U.S. division, comprised of a $0.4 million increase in third party service revenues, a $0.3 million increase in third party maintenance revenues, and a $0.2 million increase in managed service contract revenues.
The $2.4 million increase in total revenues is primarily attributed to a $2.8 million increase by our TS segment partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease by our HPP segment.
The $4.2 million increase in the Americas revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017 is primarily due to
increased revenues by our TS segment of approximately $4.7 million, partially offset by decreased sales by our HPP segment of approximately $0.3 million.
The $1.8 million decrease in Europe revenue is primarily due to decreased sales by our TS segment for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the prior fiscal year period.
The slight $30 thousand decrease in Asia is primarily the result of decreased product sales by our HPP segment to a customer of approximately $51 thousand, partially offset by increased sales by our TS segment of $21 thousand.
Gross Margins
The overall HPP segment gross margin as a percentage of sales decreased to 48% for the period from 59% in the same prior year period.
The 11% decrease in gross margin as a percentage of sales in the HPP segment was primarily attributed to a decrease in Multicomputer high margin royalty revenues.
 The gross margin as a percentage of sales for TS segment product revenues decreased by 2% for the period primarily as a result of a decrease in gross margin sales for both our U.S. and U.K. divisions.
The 1% decrease of gross margin as a percentage of the TS segment services sales is the result of decreased service margins in our U.S. division related to the mix of services provided.
Engineering and Development Expenses
Engineering and development expenses increased by $47 thousand to $745 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $698 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The current period expenses were primarily for product engineering expenses incurred in connection with the development of the new ARIA SDS cyber security products.
The increased engineering and development expenses for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three month period ended December 31, 2017 is primarily attributed to an increase in engineering headcount related expenses.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
The increase to other income (expenses) for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017 was primarily driven by the net change of approximately $75 thousand in the foreign exchange gain (loss) on foreign currency holdings combined with an increase in interest income of approximately $51 thousand, partially offset by a decrease in other income of approximately $73 thousand.
Income Taxes
Income tax expense was $2 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to income tax expense of $1.1 million in the same period of 2017 due primary to enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
The income tax expense for quarter ended December 31, 2018 was due to the FIN 48 tax expense.
The U.K. did not have any tax expense in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 due to the utilization of a portion of its net tax operating loss.
The income tax provision for the current period is not comparable to the same period of the prior year due to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the prior year, changes in pretax income over many jurisdictions, and the impact of discrete items.
Generally, fluctuations in the effective tax rate are primarily due to changes in our geographic pretax income resulting from our business mix and changes in the tax impact of permanent differences, other special items, and other discrete tax items, which may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item.
Results of Discontinued Operations
The following table is a summary of the operating results of the Germany division of our TS segment which was sold in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018 and have been reflected as discontinued operations.
See Note 13 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 for additional information.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our primary source of liquidity is our cash and cash equivalents, which decreased by $4.5 million to $20.7 million as of December 31, 2018 from $25.1 million as of September 30, 2018.
Our significant sources of cash for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included a decrease in inventories of $0.6 million, and a decrease in officer's life insurance receivable of $0.3 million.
Our significant uses of cash for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included an increase in accounts receivable of $4.1 million, an increase in other current assets of $0.7 million, and a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $0.3 million.
Cash held by our foreign subsidiary in the United Kingdom totaled approximately $9.0 million as of December 31, 2018 as compared to $9.9 million as of September 30, 2018.
This cash is included in our total cash and cash equivalents reported above.
If cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy working capital requirements, we may need to access funds through bank loans, the equity markets, or other means.
There is no assurance that we will be able to raise any such capital on terms acceptable to us, on a timely basis or at all.
If we are unable to secure additional financing, we may not be able to complete development or enhancement of products, take advantage of future opportunities, respond to competition or continue to effectively operate our business.
Based on our current plans and business conditions, management believes that the Company’s available cash and cash equivalents, the cash generated from the sale of our German operations, the cash generated from operations and availability on our lines of credit will be sufficient to provide for the Company’s working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the foreseeable future.
Item 4.
Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
The Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2018.
Our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management team supervised and participated in this evaluation.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the
company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2018, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
 Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION
Item 6.
Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index
