fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
Diluted earnings per share for Class B shares under the two-class method are $0.04 and $0.08 for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, and $0.09 and $0.17 for the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company’s results for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaces the existing revenue recognition guidance.
The Company adopted the new revenue standard effective May 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method.
The Company’s total revenue impact is $1.2 million, with approximately 70% impacting the fiscal year ending April 30, 2019, which is the result of recognizing revenue for the license component of its term licenses and certain perpetual license contracts that were previously recognized over time due to the lack of vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value at the point-in-time at which control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit which the Company has determined to be six years, which has an impact of $1.1 million.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet was an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase to contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
The Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and software-as-a-service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.
The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer.
Revenue from a SaaS solution is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement.


item2.txt
The SCM segment primarily consists of Logility, which is a leading provider of collaborative supply chain optimization and advanced retail planning solutions that help medium, large and Fortune 500 companies transform their supply chain operations to gain a competitive advantage and which is recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI).
The SCM segment also includes (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
This increase was partially offset by a 18% decrease in license revenues.
For the six months ended October 31, 2018, the 4% increase in revenues over the six months ended October 31, 2017 was attributable primarily to a 78% increase in subscription fees revenues, and to a lesser extent a 7% increase in maintenance revenues and a 3% increase in professional services revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
International revenues represented approximately 20% of total revenues in the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, license fee revenues from our SCM segment decreased 21% and 44%, respectively, when compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year due to an increase in sales of our products on Logility’s cloud services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years.
For the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, our SCM segment constituted approximately 96% and 100% of total license fee revenues, respectively.
For the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, our SCM segment constituted approximately 97% and 100% of total license fee revenues, respectively.
Our Other segment license fee revenues increased by 627% and 355%, respectively, for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to timing of additional sales to our existing ERP customers.


item3.txt
We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $108,000 and of $355,000 for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, respectively, compared to an exchange rate loss of approximately $41,000 and a gain of $400 for the three months and six months ended October 31, 2017, respectively.
We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $387,000 exchange rate gain or loss for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018.


item4.txt
Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.


part2.txt
Item 1.


