fls.txt



item1.txt
Diluted earnings per share for Class B shares under the two-class method are $0.18 and $0.08 for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, and $0.35 and $0.15 for the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Revenue derived from maintenance contracts primarily includes telephone consulting, product updates, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.
Revenue derived from services primarily includes consulting, implementation, and training.
In accordance with the other presentation matters within the Revenue Recognition Topic of the FASB’s Accounting Standards Codification, we recognize amounts received for reimbursement of travel and other out-of-pocket expenses incurred as revenue in the condensed consolidated statements of operations under services and other.
These amounts totaled approximately $419,000 and $1.4 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively, and $414,000 and $1.6 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2017, respectively.
Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) revenues include fees for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in a hosted environment by the Company or by a third party and the customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no ability to take delivery of the software.
The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually.
SaaS revenues (which rolls into services and other revenue) are recognized ratably over the subscription period once the services commence.
We recognize revenues for sales made through indirect channels principally when the distributor makes the sale to an end-user, the license fee is fixed or determinable, the license fee is nonrefundable, and the sale meets all other conditions for revenue recognition.
Deferred revenue represents advance payments or billings for software licenses, services, and maintenance billed in advance of the time revenue is recognized.
The unbilled receivable balance consists of amounts generated from license fee and services revenues.


item2.txt
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of technology intangibles and capitalized computer software development costs, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
Costs for maintenance and services include the cost of personnel to conduct implementations and customer support, consulting, other personnel-related expenses, and agent commission expenses related to maintenance revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
The 14% increase in revenues over the three months ended January 31, 2018 when compared to the same period last year was attributable primarily to a 50% increase in license fee revenues and, to a lesser extent, a 9% increase in services and other revenues and a 5% increase in maintenance revenues.
The increase in license fee revenues was attributable to entering into several license fee agreements during the quarter in our SCM segment, due to an increase in general economic activity and higher overall business information technology spending from the US tax reform.
The primary reason for the increase in services and other revenues in the three months ended January 31, 2018 was an increase in implementation and cloud services in our SCM segment partially offset by a decrease in our IT consulting services due to decreased demand for IT temporary staff.
International revenues represented approximately 20% and 17% of total revenues in the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Our revenues, in particular our international revenues, may fluctuate substantially from period to period primarily because we derive most of our license fee revenues from a relatively small number of customers in a given period.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, license fee revenues increased 50% and 6%, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the prior year.
In the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, license fee revenues from our SCM business unit increased 49% and 6%, respectively, when compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year.
Our SCM business unit constituted 99% and 100% of total license fee revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Our SCM business unit constituted 99% and 99% of total license fee revenues for the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.


item3.txt
We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $456,000 and $455,000 exchange gain or loss for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Exhibits  


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings  


