fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
In the opinion of our management, these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at October 31, 2019, results of operations for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018.
The Company’s results for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
Under the new guidance, a lessee is required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.
These disclosures include qualitative and quantitative requirements, providing additional information about the amounts recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company adopted ASC 842 on May 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective method and utilized the optional transition method under which the Company continues to apply the legacy guidance in ASC 840, Leases, including its disclosure requirements, in the comparative period presented.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of operating lease ROU assets of approximately $2.7 million, current operating lease liabilities of approximately $0.7 million and long-term operating lease liabilities of approximately $2.1 million as of May 1, 2019.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.
The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer.
We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed.
Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.
Revenue related to maintenance is generally paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the agreement since the Company is standing ready to provide a series of maintenance services that are substantially the same each period over the term; therefore, time is the best measure of progress.
Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract.
We allocate the transaction price to distinct performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling price (“SSP”).


item2.txt
Our four brands - Logility, Demand Solutions, Halo and NGC Software - provide a single platform spanning eight supply chain process areas, including demand optimization, inventory optimization, supply optimization, retail optimization, quality and compliance, product lifecycle management, sourcing management and integrated business planning.
In addition to our core SCM software business, we also offer technology staffing and consulting services through our wholly-owned subsidiary, The Proven Method, Inc., in the IT Consulting segment.
Our cost of revenue for licenses and subscriptions includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
For the three months ended October 31, 2019 compared to October 31, 2018 revenues remained relatively flat attributable primarily to a 64% increase in subscription fees that were partially offset by a 48% decrease in license revenues, a 7% decrease in maintenance revenues and a 2% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
For the six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to October 31, 2018 revenues remained flat attributable primarily to a 53% increase in subscription fees that were partially offset by a 24% decrease in license revenues, a 6% decrease in maintenance revenues and a 5% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
International revenues represented approximately 19% and 21% of total revenues in the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, compared to 20% for the same periods in the prior year.
In the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, license fee revenues from our SCM segment decreased 47% and 24%, respectively, when compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year due to our transition of new and existing business into the cloud subscription model compared to the historical on premise software model.
The majority of our current license fee revenue is generated from additional users and scope from our existing customers.
For the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, our SCM segment constituted approximately 97% and 96% of total license fee revenues, respectively.
For the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, our SCM segment constituted approximately 96% and 97% of total license fee revenues, respectively.
respectively, for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to timing of additional sales to our existing ERP customers.


item3.txt
We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $0.1 million and $0.2 million for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to an exchange rate loss of approximately $0.1 million and $0.4 million for the same periods in the prior year.
We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $0.3 million and $0.4 million exchange rate gain or loss for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019.


item4.txt
Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.


part2.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities


