fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at January 31, 2019, results of operations for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018.
The Company’s results for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaced the previous revenue recognition guidance.
In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit, which the Company has determined to be six years, which will have an impact of $1.1 million.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet will be an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase in contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.
The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer.
Revenue from a SaaS solution is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement.
We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed.
The total amount of expense reimbursement included in professional services and other revenue was approximately $336,000 and $1.1 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively, and approximately $419,000 and $1.4 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively.


item2.txt
The SCM segment also includes (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
For the three months ended January 31, 2019, the 10% decrease in revenues over the three months ended January 31, 2018 was attributable primarily to a 71% decrease in license revenues and to a lesser extent a 2% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
This decrease was partially offset by a 43% increase in subscription fees revenues and to a lesser extent a 2% increase in maintenance revenues.
This decrease was partially offset by a 63% increase in subscription fees revenues, and to a lesser extent a 5% increase in maintenance revenues and a 1% increase in professional services revenues.
International revenues represented approximately 17% and 19% of total revenues in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively and 20% of total revenues in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, license fee revenues decreased 71% and 56%, respectively, when compared to the same period in the prior year.
In the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, license fee revenues from our SCM segment decreased 71% and 57%, respectively, when compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year due to an increase in sales of our products on Logility’s cloud services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years.
For both the three months and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, our SCM segment constituted approximately 98% and 99% of total license fee revenues, respectively.
2019 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to timing of additional sales to our existing ERP customers.
The increase in the percentage of sales by our direct sales channel for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 was due to our indirect channel selling proportionately more SaaS than license contracts compared to our direct channel.


item3.txt
We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $21,000 and of $375,000 for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively, compared to an exchange rate gain of approximately $75,000 for both the three months and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively.
We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $390,000 and $430,000 exchange rate gain or loss for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively.


item4.txt
Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities


