fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
Basic per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B Common Shares.
Diluted earnings per share for Class B Common Shares under the two-class method are $0.05 and $0.09 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at July 31, 2018, results of operations for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017 and cash flows for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017.
The Company’s results for the three months ended July 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (“American Software” or the “Company”).
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaces the existing revenue recognition guidance.
The Company’s total revenue impact is $1.2 million, with approximately 70% impacting the fiscal year ending April 30, 2019, which is the result of recognizing revenue for the license component of its term licenses and certain perpetual license contracts that were previously recognized over time due to the lack of vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit which the Company has determined to be six years, which has an impact of $1.1 million.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet is expected to be an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase to contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
The Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and software-as-a-service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually.
Revenue from a SaaS solution is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement.


item2.txt
Recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI), as well as (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
The Other segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) corporate overhead and other common expenses.
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, the 2% increase in revenues over the three months ended July 31, 2017 was attributable primarily to a 96% increase in subscription fees revenues, and to a lesser extent a 6% increase in professional services and maintenance revenues, respectively when compared to the same period last year.
International revenues represented approximately 20% of total revenues in the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In the three months ended July 31, 2018, license fee revenues from our SCM segment decreased 58% when compared to the same period in the prior year due to an increase in sales of our products on Logility’s Cloud Services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years.
Our SCM segment constituted approximately 99% and 100% of total license fee revenues for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Our Other segment license fee revenues increased by 67% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to timing of additional sales to our existing ERP customers.
The direct sales channel provided approximately 89% of license fee revenues for the three months ended July 31, 2018, compared to approximately 86% in the comparable quarter a year ago.


item3.txt
We recorded an exchange rate loss of approximately $247,000 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 compared to an exchange rate gain of $41,000 for the same period in the prior year.
We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $306,000 exchange gain or loss for the three months ended July 31, 2018.


item4.txt
Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.


part2.txt
Item 1.


