fls.txt
Forward-looking statements are based on our management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, Regulation S-X.
The January 28, 2018 consolidated balance sheet was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018, as filed with the SEC, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
Our customer programs primarily involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products.
As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed.
Customers may purchase either perpetual licenses or subscriptions to licenses, which differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software.
Revenue from software licenses is recognized up front when the software is made available to the customer.
PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update that creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies, in all industries.
Refer to Note 2 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases by which we will begin recognizing lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for lease terms of more than 12 months.
The update will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
The impact of applying the new standard on our consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended April 29, 2018 was not significant.
The Convertible Notes have a dilutive impact on net income per share if our average stock price for the reporting period exceeds the adjusted conversion price of $20.0296 per share.


item2.txt
Selected Financial Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 and “Item 1A.
While our GPU and CUDA architecture is unified, our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users.
Revenue for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 increased 66% year over year and 10% sequentially.
GPU business revenue was $2.77 billion, up 77% from a year earlier and up 12% sequentially, led by gaming and datacenter.
Datacenter revenue was $701 million, up 71% from a year ago and up 16% sequentially, led by strong sales of our Volta architecture, including NVIDIA Tesla V100, new DGX systems, and HPC design wins.
Tegra processor business revenue, which includes SOC modules for the Nintendo Switch gaming console, was $442 million, up 33% from a year ago and down 2% sequentially.
The impact of adopting the new revenue standard was not significant to our consolidated financial statements in the first quarter.
Gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was 64.5%, increasing from the prior year and the previous quarter due to strong growth in datacenter revenue and the mix within our GeForce gaming GPUs.
Income from operations for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $1.29 billion, up 134% from a year earlier and up 21% sequentially.
Net income and net income per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 were $1.24 billion and $1.98, respectively, up 145% and 151%, respectively, from a year earlier, fueled by strong revenue growth and improved gross and operating margins.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we returned to shareholders $655 million in share repurchases and $91 million in cash dividends.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018.
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.


