This document includes and incorporates forward-looking statements that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. All statements, other than statements of historical facts included or incorporated in this document, regarding our strategy, future operations, financial position and estimated revenues, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management are forward-looking statements. When used in this document, the words "will," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate," "expect," "project" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. We cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or strategic investments. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including the risks described in the section of this report entitled "Factors that May Affect Future Results" and elsewhere in this document. 
 
FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS 
 
Our prospects are subject to certain uncertainties and risks. Our future results may differ materially from the current results and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to those set forth below, other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 
Our business has been, and could continue to be, materially adversely affected as a result of general economic and market conditions. 
 
We are subject to the effects of general global economic and market conditions. Our operating results have been materially adversely affected as a result of recent unfavorable economic conditions and reduced electronics industry spending on both a domestic and worldwide basis. If economic and market conditions do not improve, our business, results of operations or financial condition could continue to be materially adversely affected. 
 
 
Our operating results fluctuate and may fail to satisfy the expectations of public market analysts and investors, causing our stock price to decline. 
 
Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect our results to continue to fluctuate in the future. Our results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including the timing and volume of orders from customers, the timing of introductions of and market acceptance of new products, changes in prices of raw materials, variations in production yields and general economic trends. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may not meet or exceed the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock is likely to decline. 
 
Our quarterly results depend upon a small number of large orders received in each quarter, so the loss of any single large order could harm quarterly results and cause our stock price to drop. 
 
A substantial portion of our sales in any given quarter depends on obtaining a small number of large orders for products to be manufactured and shipped in the same quarter in which the orders are received. Although we attempt to monitor our customers' needs, we often have limited knowledge of the magnitude or timing of future orders. It is difficult for us to reduce spending on short notice on operating expenses such as fixed manufacturing costs, development costs and ongoing customer service. As a result, a reduction in orders, or even the loss of a single large order, for products to be shipped in any given quarter could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly operating results. This, in turn, could cause our stock price to decline. 
 

Competing technologies may reduce demand for our products. 
 
Flexible circuit and laminated cable interconnects provide electrical connections between components in electrical systems and are used as a platform to support the attachment of electronic devices. While flexible circuits and laminated cables offer several advantages over competing printed circuit board and ceramic hybrid circuit technologies, our customers may consider changing their designs to use these alternative technologies in future applications. If our customers switch to alternative technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. It is also possible that the flexible interconnect industry could encounter competition from new technologies in the future that render existing flexible interconnect technology less competitive or obsolete. 
We are heavily dependent upon certain target markets for domestic manufacturing. A slowdown in these markets could have a material impact on domestic capacity utilization resulting in lower sales and gross margins. 
 
We manufacture our products in six facilities worldwide, including lower cost offshore locations in China. However, a significant portion of our manufacturing is still performed domestically. Domestic manufacturing may be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to price when compared to lower cost facilities in Asia and other locations. While historically our competitors in these locations have produced less technologically advanced products, they continue to expand their capabilities. Further, we have targeted markets that have historically sought domestic manufacturing, including the military and aerospace markets. Should we be unsuccessful in maintaining our competitive advantage or should certain target markets also move production to lower cost offshore locations, our domestic sales will decline resulting in significant excess capacity and reduced gross margins. 
 

If we become involved in a protracted intellectual property dispute, or one with a significant damages award or which requires us to cease selling some of our products, we could be subject to significant liability and the time and attention of our management could be diverted. 
 
Although no claims have been asserted against us for infringement of the proprietary rights of others, we may be subject to a claim of infringement in the future. An intellectual property lawsuit against us, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and could invalidate our proprietary rights. A successful lawsuit against us could also force us to cease selling, or redesign, products that incorporate the infringed intellectual property. We could also be required to obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property to use the infringed technology. We might not be able to obtain a license on reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to develop a non-infringing technology on a timely basis or to license the infringed technology on acceptable terms, our revenues could decline and our expenses could increase. 
 

We may have exposure to additional income tax liabilities. 
 
As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenues and expenses in different jurisdictions and the timing of recognizing revenues and expenses. Additionally, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. From time to time, we are subject to income tax audits. While we believe we have complied with all applicable income tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes. Should we be assessed with significant additional taxes, there could be a material adverse affect on our results of operations or financial condition. 
