ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
•
Overview
•
Preface
•
Results of Operations
•
Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
•
Working Capital, Liquidity and Capital Resources
•
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
•
New Accounting Standards to be Adopted
OVERVIEW
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947.
We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries.
Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires.
We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures.
PLPC is respected around the world for quality, dependability and market-leading customer service.
Our goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture, and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets.
We have 28 sales and manufacturing operations in 20 different countries.
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment.
We evaluate segment performance and allocate resources based on several factors primarily based on sales and net income.
PREFACE
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Our discussions of the financial results include non-GAAP measures (e.g., foreign currency impact) to provide additional information concerning our financial results and provide information that we believe is useful to the readers of our consolidated financial statements in the assessment of our performance and operating trends.
The operating results for the three months ended June 30, 2019 are compared to the same period in 2018.
Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 of $114.8 million increased $5.9 million, or 5%, compared to 2018.
As a percentage of net sales, gross profit increased to 32.9% in 2019 from 32.3% in 2018.
Gross profit for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $37.8 million and $35.2 million, respectively.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, gross profit increased $4.1 million, or 12%, compared to 2018.
Costs and expenses of $26.7 million increased $.8 million compared to 2018, including a favorable impact from currency translation of $1.0 million.
Operating income for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $11.1 million, an increase of $1.8 million compared to 2018.
Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2019 of $7.9 million increased $1.1 million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The effect of currency translation had unfavorable impacts on operating income of $.5 million and net income of $.4 million.
The operating results for the six months ended June 30, 2019 are compared to the same period in 2018.
Net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of $212.0 million increased $4.9 million, or 2%, compared to the same period in 2018.
As a percentage of net sales, gross profit decreased to 30.7% in 2019 from 32.2% in 2018.
Gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of $65.1 million decreased $1.6 million, or 2%, compared to 2018.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of currency translation, gross profit increased $1.2 million, or 2%, compared to 2018.
Costs and expenses of $51.9 million increased $2.3 million compared to 2018 which included a favorable impact from currency translation of $2.7 million.
Operating income for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $13.2 million, a decrease of $3.9 million compared to 2018.
Net income for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of $9.7 million decreased $2.6 million compared to the same period in 2018.
The effect of currency translation had unfavorable impacts on both operating income and net income of $.2 million.
Despite the constant changes in the current global economy, we believe our business fundamentals and our financial position are sound and that we are strategically well-positioned.
We remain focused on assessing our business structure, global facilities and overall capacity in conjunction with the requirements of local manufacturing in the markets that we serve.
If necessary, we will modify redundant processes and utilize our global manufacturing network to manage costs, increase sales volumes and deliver value to our customers.
We have continued to invest in the business to improve efficiency, develop new products, increase our capacity and become an even stronger supplier to our customers.
We currently have a bank debt to equity ratio of 26.1% and can borrow needed funds at a competitive interest rate under our credit facility.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
THREE MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2019 COMPARED TO THREE MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2018
The following table sets forth a summary of the Company’s Statements of Consolidated Income and the percentage of net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
The Company’s past operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.
The year-over-year increase in PLP-USA net sales of $3.7 million, or 9%, was primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales.
International net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 experienced an unfavorable impact of $4.6 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars.
The following discussion of net sales excludes the effect of currency translation.
The Americas net sales of $17.7 million increased $1.6 million, or 9%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy and communication product sales.
EMEA net sales of $22.6 million increased $2.6 million, or 12%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales within the region, including incremental sales from the newly acquired businesses.
In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $28.2 million increased $2.6 million, or 10%, compared to 2018 primarily due to a volume increase in the energy, communication and special industries products.
PLP-USA gross profit of $18.6 million increased $3.4 million compared to the same period in 2018 as a result of increased sales volume combined with a product sales mix shift to higher margin products.
International gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was unfavorably impacted by $1.5 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars.
The following discussion of gross profit excludes the effects of currency translation.
The Americas gross profit decrease of $.8 million was primarily the result of a product margin decline in the region due to sales mix and increases in raw material costs.
EMEA gross profit increased $.7 million, mainly as a result of increased sales volume.
Asia-Pacific gross profit increased $.8 million primarily as a result of a year-over-year increase in sales combined with a sales mix shift to higher margin products.
PLP-USA costs and expenses of $12.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased less than $.1 million compared to 2018 mainly due to $.5 million of higher personnel-related expenses and $.2 million of increased professional fees, partially offset by a net increase in foreign currency exchange gains of $.7 million.
Foreign currency exchange gains and losses are primarily related to translating into U.S. dollars its foreign denominated loans, trade and royalty receivables from its foreign subsidiaries at the June 30, 2019 exchange rates.
On a consolidated basis, costs and expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2019 were favorably impacted by $1.0 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars.
The following discussion of costs and expenses excludes the effect of currency translation.
The Americas costs and expenses of $3.4 million decreased less than $.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to lower personnel-related expenses of $.1 million.
EMEA costs and expenses of $5.6 million increased $1.8 million mainly due to costs incurred in acquired businesses.
Asia-Pacific costs and expenses of $5.4 million increased less than $.1 million.
This slight increase was primarily due to increased salary-related expenses of $.1 million, partially offset by a net increase in foreign currency exchange gains of $.1 million.
Other income (expense).
Other expense for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $.3 million and $.1 million, respectively.
A $.6 million, or 5%, net increase resulting from higher U.S. permanent items primarily related to limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation.
A $.2 million, or 2%, increase resulting from earnings in jurisdictions with higher tax rates than the U.S. federal statutory rate.
A $.3 million, or 3%, net increase resulting from higher U.S. permanent items primarily related to limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation
A $.3 million, or 3%, increase resulting from earnings in jurisdictions with higher tax rates than the U.S. federal statutory rate.
PLP-USA’s net income for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased $2.4 million compared to the same period in 2018 due to an increase in operating income of $3.4 million, partially offset by an increase in income taxes of $1.0 million.
The following discussion of net income excludes the effect of currency translation.
The Americas net income decreased $.8 million as a result of a $.8 million decrease in operating income.
EMEA net income decreased $.7 million as a result of a $.8 million decrease in operating income offset by a $.1 million year-over-year decrease in income tax expense.
Asia-Pacific net income increased $.5 million due to a $.7 million increase in operating income, partially offset by an increase in other non-operating expenses of $.1 million and an increase in income tax expense of $.1 million.
PLP’s EMEA segment incurred a net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests of less than $.1 million, which when added back to net income, resulted in an immaterial change to net income attributable to Preformed Line Products Company Shareholders.
SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2019 COMPARED TO SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2018
The following table sets forth a summary of the Company’s Statements of Consolidated Income and the percentage of net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
The Company’s past operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.
The year-over-year increase in PLP-USA net sales of $5.7 million, or 7%, was primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales.
International net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2019 experienced an unfavorable impact of $9.4 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars.
The following discussion of net sales excludes the effect of currency translation.
The Americas net sales of $31.5 million decreased $2.0 million, or 5%, primarily due to a volume decrease in energy and communication product sales.
EMEA net sales of $38.2 million increased $4.7 million, or 13%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales within the region.
In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $54.5 million increased $5.9 million, or 12%, compared to 2018 primarily due to a volume increase in energy and special industries products.
PLP-USA gross profit of $30.6 million increased $1.9 million compared to the same period in 2018 as a result of higher sales volume combined with a product sales mix shift to higher margin products, primarily energy products.
International gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was unfavorably impacted by $2.9 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars.
The following discussion of gross profit excludes the effects of currency translation.
The Americas gross profit decrease of $4.0 million was primarily the result of a year-over-year reduction in sales of $2.0 million combined with product margin decline in the region due to sales mix and increases in raw material costs.
EMEA gross profit increased $1.4 million year over year mainly as a result of the $4.7 million increase in sales volume.
Asia-Pacific gross profit increased $2.0 million predominantly due to the region’s year-over-year $5.9 million increase in sales and a sales mix shift to higher margin products.
PLP-USA costs and expenses of $24.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $1.3 million, or 6%, compared to 2018 mainly due to an increase in professional fees, which consisted of acquisition-related expenses of $.8 million, $.7 million of higher personnel-related and benefits expenses combined with $.4 million increase in bad debt expense, partially offset by $.6 million of net year-over-year gains on foreign currency exchange.
Foreign currency exchange gains and losses are primarily related to translating into U.S. dollars its foreign denominated loans, trade and royalty receivables from its foreign subsidiaries at the June 30, 2019 exchange rates.
On a consolidated basis, costs and expenses for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were favorably impacted by $2.7 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars.
The following discussion of costs and expenses excludes the effect of currency translation.
The Americas costs and expenses of $6.4 million increased $.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to a year-over-year increase in personnel-related expenses of $.2 million combined with increased professional fees of $.2 million.
EMEA costs and expenses of $9.7 million increased $2.4 million mainly due to costs incurred in acquired businesses.
Asia-Pacific costs and expenses of $11.2 million increased $.8 million.
This increase was primarily due to higher personnel costs of $.5 million, combined with increased net year-over-year loss on foreign currency exchange transactions of $.3 million.
Other income (expense).
Other expense for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $.4 million and $.2 million, respectively.
A $.2 million, or 1%, net increase resulting from higher U.S. permanent items primarily related to limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation.
A $.3 million, or 2%, increase resulting from earnings in jurisdictions with higher tax rates than the U.S. federal statutory rate.
A $.2 million, or 1%, net increase resulting from higher U.S. permanent items primarily related to limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation.
A $.1 million, or 1%, increase resulting from losses in certain jurisdictions where no tax benefit is recognized.
A $.8 million, or 4%, increase resulting from earnings in jurisdictions with higher tax rates than the U.S. federal statutory rate.
PLP-USA’s net income for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $.6 million compared to the same period in 2018 mainly due to a $.6 million increase in operating income.
The following discussion of net income excludes the effect of currency translation.
The Americas net income decreased $3.2 million as a result of a $4.4 million decrease in operating income, partially offset by a decrease in income tax expense of $1.2 million.
EMEA net income decreased by $.5 million as a result of a decrease in operating income of $.8 million which was partially offset by a decrease in income tax expense of $.3 million.
Asia-Pacific net income increased $.6 million as a result of a $1.2 million increase in operating income partially offset by an increase in income tax expense of $.6 million.
PLP’s EMEA segment incurred a net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests of less than $.1 million, which when added back to net income, resulted in an immaterial change to net income attributable to Preformed Line Products Company Shareholders.
POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
Our critical accounting policies are consistent with the information set forth in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed on March 8, 2019 with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are, therefore, not presented herein.
For more detail regarding the January 1, 2019 adoption of ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842),” refer to Note Q “Leases” and Note K “Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements.”
WORKING CAPITAL, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Management Assessment of Liquidity
We measure liquidity on the basis of our ability to meet short-term and long-term operating needs, repay debt, fund additional investments, including acquisitions, and make dividend payments to shareholders.
Significant factors affecting the management of liquidity are cash flows from operating activities, capital expenditures, cash dividends, business acquisitions and access to bank lines of credit.
Our investments include expenditures required for equipment and facilities as well as expenditures in support of our strategic initiatives.
During the first six months of 2019, we used cash of $12.0 million for capital expenditures.
We ended the first six months of 2019 with $41.6 million of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (“Cash”).
Our Cash is held in various locations throughout the world.
At June 30, 2019, the majority of our Cash was held outside the United States (“U.S.”).
We expect most accumulated non-U.S. Cash balances will remain outside of the U.S. and that we will meet U.S. liquidity needs through future cash flows, use of U.S. Cash balances, external borrowings, or some combination of these sources.
We complete comprehensive reviews of our significant customers and their creditworthiness by analyzing financial statements for customers where we have identified a measure of increased risk.
We closely monitor payments and developments which may signal possible customer credit issues.
We currently have not identified any potential material impact on our liquidity from customer credit issues.
Total debt at June 30, 2019 was $67.3 million.
At June 30, 2019, our unused availability under our line of credit was $26.9 million and our bank debt to equity percentage was 26.1%.
In 2018, we extended the term on our $65 million credit facility from June 30, 2019 to June 30, 2021.
All other terms remain the same, including the interest rate at LIBOR plus 1.125% unless our funded debt to Earnings before Interest, Taxes and Depreciation ratio exceeds 2.25 to 1, at which point the LIBOR spread becomes 1.500%.
The line of credit agreement contains, among other provisions, requirements for maintaining levels of net worth and funded debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization along with an interest coverage ratio.
The net worth and profitability requirements are calculated based on the line of credit agreement.
At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with these covenants.
Sources and Uses of Cash
Cash decreased $.1 million compared to the same period in 2018.
Net Cash provided by operating activities was $5.8 million.
The most significant net investing and financing uses of Cash in the six months ended June, 2019 were payments of long-term debt of $25.6 million, Cash used to fund the acquisition of SubCon and MICOS Telcom of $19.0 million, capital expenditures of $12.0 million, share repurchases of $3.8 million and dividends paid of $2.2 million, partially offset by net debt and notes payable proceeds of $56.2 million.
Currency had a negative $1.4 million impact on Cash when translating foreign denominated financial statements to U.S. dollars.
Net Cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $5.8 million compared to $7.7 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018.
The $1.9 million decrease was primarily a result of a decrease in net income of $2.6 million, partially offset by a decrease in Cash usage for operating assets (net of operating liabilities) of $1.0 million, which included a decrease resulting from the $5.3 million contribution to the pension plan in 2018 and a decrease in non-cash items of $.3 million.
Net Cash used in investing activities of $31.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $21.2 million when compared to Cash used in investing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2018 of $10.3 million.
The change was primarily related to Cash used to fund the SubCon and MICOS Telcom acquisitions, net of Cash, of $19.0 million and a year-over-year increase in capital expenditures of $6.7 million, partially offset by a reduction in Cash used year-over year to purchase marketable securities of $4.2 million.
Cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $24.7 million compared to $1.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
The $23.4 million increase was primarily the result of a net increase in debt borrowings in 2019 compared to 2018 of $25.7 million, partially offset by a year-over-year change in Cash used for stock repurchases of $1.9 million and a decrease in proceeds from common shares of $.3 million.
RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
See Note K of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS TO BE ADOPTED
See Note L of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
Cautionary Statement for “Safe Harbor” Purposes Under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This Form 10-Q and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) contain forward-looking statements regarding the Company’s and management’s beliefs and expectations.
As a general matter, forward-looking statements are those focused upon future plans, objectives or performance (as opposed to historical items) and include statements of anticipated events or trends and expectations and beliefs relating to matters not historical in nature.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to the Company’s operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the Company’s control.
Such uncertainties and factors could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could affect the Company’s future performance and cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made in this report:
•
The overall demand for cable anchoring and control hardware for electrical transmission and distribution lines on a worldwide basis, which has a slow growth rate in mature markets such as the U.S., Canada, Australia and Western Europe and may grow slowly or experience prolonged delay in developing regions despite expanding power needs;
•
The potential impact of the global economic condition on the Company’s ongoing profitability and future growth opportunities in the Company’s core markets in the U.S. and other foreign countries where the financial situation is expected to be similar going forward;
•
The ability of the Company’s customers to raise funds needed to build the facilities their customers require;
•
Technological developments that affect longer-term trends for communication lines, such as wireless communication;
•
The decreasing demand for product supporting copper-based infrastructure due to the introduction of products using new technologies or adoption of new industry standards;
•
The Company’s success at continuing to develop proprietary technology and maintaining high quality products and customer service to meet or exceed new industry performance standards and individual customer expectations;
•
The Company’s success in strengthening and retaining relationships with the Company’s customers, growing sales at targeted accounts and expanding geographically;
•
The extent to which the Company is successful at expanding the Company’s product line or production facilities into new areas or implementing efficiency measures at existing facilities;
•
The effects of fluctuation in currency exchange rates upon the Company’s foreign subsidiaries’ operations and reported results from international operations, together with non-currency risks of investing in and conducting significant operations in foreign countries, including those relating to political, social, economic and regulatory factors;
•
The Company’s ability to identify, complete, obtain funding for and integrate acquisitions for profitable growth;
•
The potential impact of consolidation, deregulation and bankruptcy among the Company’s suppliers, competitors and customers and of any legal or regulatory claims;
•
The relative degree of competitive and customer price pressure on the Company’s products;
•
The cost, availability and quality of raw materials required for the manufacture of products and any tariffs that may be associated with the purchase of these products;
•
Strikes, labor disruptions and other fluctuations in labor costs;
•
Changes in significant government regulations affecting environmental compliances or other litigation matters;
•
The telecommunication market’s continued deployment of Fiber-to-the-Premises; and
•
Those factors described under the heading “Risk Factors” on page 12 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed on March 8, 2019.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
