For further information, refer to the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
PCTEL antennas are deployed in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in network equipment and devices for the Industrial Internet of Things (“IIoT”).
Each segment has its own segment manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions.
All of the Company’s accounting and finance, human resources, information technology (“IT”) and legal functions are provided on a centralized basis through the corporate function.
The Company manages its balance sheet and cash flows centrally at the corporate level, with the exception of trade accounts receivable and inventory which is managed at the segment level.
PCTEL antennas are deployed primarily in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in equipment and devices for the IIoT.
These include radio frequency engineering, mobile antenna design and manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering.
Network operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL’s scanning receivers and testing solutions to analyze, design, and optimize their networks.
PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate the Company’s products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers.
These include radio frequency engineering, digital signal process engineering, manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company approved a plan to sell its Network Engineering Services business (“Engineering Services”) and shift its focus to research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products.
On July 31, 2017, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of the Company’s Engineering Services business to Gabe’s Construction Co., Inc. (“Gabe’s”) for a purchase price of $1.45 million.
The Engineering Services business provided design, testing, commissioning, optimization, and consulting services for cellular, Wi-Fi and public safety networks and was a reporting unit within the RF Solutions segment.The following information should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
Our second quarter 2018 revenues of $21.6 million increased by $0.1 million, or 0.4% compared to revenues of $21.5 million for the same period in 2017.
Revenues increased for the Connected Solutions segment by $0.6 million or 3.6%, but these higher revenues were offset when revenues for the RF Solutions segment declined by $0.5 million or 11.3%.
For the second quarter 2018, we recorded an operating loss of $1.6 million compared to an operating loss of $0.3 million in the second quarter 2017.
Revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018 of $43.3 million declined by $1.2 million or 2.6% compared to revenues of $44.5 million for the same period in 2017.