We are one of the world’s leading revenue management and digital monetization, customer experience, and payment solutions providers, and a trusted partner to some of the most well-known communications, media, and entertainment companies around the globe.
We leverage more than 35 years of experience to help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape.
Drawing from real-world knowledge and unparalleled expertise, we design and implement business solutions that make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter so they can focus on evolving their businesses to provide highly sophisticated and competitive multi-product offerings while also delivering increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences that meet the ever-changing demands of their customers across all stages of the customer lifecycle.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
We generate approximately 60% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, healthcare, logistics, and transportation.
Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 we generated 87% of our revenues from the Americas region, 9% of our revenues from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, and 4% of our revenues from the Asia Pacific region.
Refer to Notes 2 and 5 to our Financial Statements for further detail regarding the adoption of ASC 842.
Transaction fees are primarily comprised of interchange and other payment-related fees that we pay, in conjunction with the delivery of service to clients under our payment services contracts, to third-party payment processors and financial institutions.
Revenues for the third quarter of 2019 were $251.4 million, an 18% increase when compared to revenues of $213.1 million for the third quarter of 2018, with the increase mainly attributed to the additional revenues generated from the acquisition of Forte on October 1, 2018, and the continued growth in our cloud solutions and managed service arrangements.
Operating income for the third quarter of 2019 was $33.4 million, or a 13.3% operating margin percentage, compared to $25.7 million, or a 12.0% operating margin percentage for the third quarter of 2018.
The increase in operating income is primarily a result of higher revenues generated in the third quarter of 2019.
As of September 30, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $172.0 million, as compared to $131.5 million as of June 30, 2019 and $162.9 million as of December 31, 2018.
In November 2018, Comcast exercised the first of their two one-year renewal options extending the term of their agreement through June 30, 2020.The interest rate on our 2016 Convertible Notes is fixed, and thus, as it relates to our convertible debt borrowings, we are not exposed to changes in interest rates.
We have minimal market risk for our cash and cash equivalents due to the relatively short maturities of the instruments.
We are exposed to market risk associated with cash held on behalf of our clients related to our payment processing services.The Exhibits filed or incorporated by reference herewith are as specified in the Exhibit Index.We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.