item1.txt
The Company adopted the ASU for revenue recognition beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $5.3 inventory return asset included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 1, 2018 with an offsetting increase to the returns reserve in Other current liabilities.
The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and distributions received from equity method investees, among others.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018.
The Company noted that the adoption of the ASU resulted in the reclassification of approximately $9.0 and $7.2 in operating cash inflows for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, associated with the $150 uncommitted master accounts receivable purchase agreement entered into on September 15, 2017 with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the purchaser (the “Accounts Receivable Facility”) to investing cash inflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018 and noted that the impact on its financial statements was not material.
The Company has begun assessing the impact of the standard, identified the components of the lease portfolio, and begun implementing business process changes and controls including new lease accounting software required to correctly apply the guidance across the organization.
The Company is in the process of evaluating its impact on the financial statements; however, the Company anticipates the primary impacts will be a material increase in both assets and liabilities to include operating leases on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
On October 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 which provided guidance for accounting for revenue from contracts with customers.
The adoption resulted in changes to how the Company reflects returns and advanced payments received from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Refer to Note 15 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the Company’s disaggregation of revenue by operating segments and products.
The Company’s revenue is from the sale of its products.
The Company’s standard sales terms are final and returns or exchanges are not permitted with the exception of end of season returns for Sun Care products.
The Company had a reserve for returns of $50.6 and $58.6 at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
The adoption of ASU 2014-09 required changes in the presentation of returns on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, namely that a return asset should be recognized for returns expected to be resold, measured at the carrying amount of goods at the time of sale, less the expected costs to recover the goods and any expected reduction in value.
The Company had an inventory return asset of $5.3 as of the adoption date.
The Company recorded an inventory return asset of $3.2 as of June 30, 2019.
Such programs require periodic payments and allowances based on estimated results of specific programs and are recorded as a reduction to Net sales.
The Company accrues, at the time of sale, the estimated total payments and allowances associated with each transaction.
Taxes the Company collects on behalf of governmental authorities, which are generally included in the price to the customer, are also recorded as a reduction of Net sales.
(“Jack Black”), a men’s luxury skincare products company based in the U.S., for $90.2, net of cash acquired.
The Company has recognized the assets and liabilities of Jack Black based on estimates of their acquisition date fair values.
The Company completed the final fair value determination during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
The Company’s purchase price allocation for Jack Black included net assets of $93.9 and consisted of working capital and other net assets of $11.9 (including cash of $3.7), other intangible assets of $47.7 and goodwill of $34.3, representing the value of expansion into new markets.
All assets are included in the Company’s Sun and Skin Care segment.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company had income tax expense of $9.3 and $56.4, respectively, on Earnings before income taxes of $21.4 and $140.3, respectively.
The difference between the federal statutory rate and the effective rate for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 is primarily due to a $17.4 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act, as discussed below, and the impact of the goodwill impairment.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.2 of RSE awards that would have otherwise been dilutive, because the Company reported a net loss.
The Company performed an interim impairment analysis using financial information through June 30, 2019 and forecasts for cash flows developed using the Company's three-year strategic plan.
The results of the impairment analysis indicated that the goodwill of the Wet Shave and Infant Care reporting units was impaired $358.0 and $29.0, respectively, as of June 30, 2019.
Additionally, the interim impairment analysis indicated the fair values of the Skin Care and Feminine Care reporting units were between 102% and 105% of their carrying values, respectively.
The Company will continue to evaluate the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 for potential impairment.
During fiscal 2018, the Company recorded impairment charges of $24.4 on the goodwill of the Infant Care reporting unit.
The value of the Infant Care reporting unit decreased and required an impairment because of higher discount rates, lower forecasted revenue growth rates, and earnings margins, which resulted in lower projected long-term future cash flows when the interim impairment analysis was performed.
The difference between the carrying amount of the trade receivables sold and the sum of the cash received is recorded as a loss on sale of receivables in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The Company funded the payment through additional borrowing on its U.S. revolving credit facility due June 2020 (“Revolving Credit Facility”).
The Company had outstanding variable-rate international borrowings recorded in Notes payable, of $12.6 and $8.2 as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company has master netting agreements with all of its counterparties that allow for the settlement of contracts in an asset position with contracts in a liability position in the event of default.
A significant share of the Company’s sales is tied to currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company’s reporting currency.
Additionally, the Company’s foreign subsidiaries enter into internal and external transactions that create non-functional currency balance sheet positions at the foreign subsidiary level.
Changes in the value of the non-functional currency balance sheet positions in relation to the foreign subsidiary’s local currency results in an exchange gain or loss recorded in Other expense, net.
At June 30, 2019, the Company maintained a cash flow hedging program related to foreign currency risk.
The Company entered into a series of forward currency contracts to hedge cash flow uncertainty associated with currency fluctuations.
The Company had an unrealized pre-tax loss of $0.5 and a gain of $3.9 at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively, on these forward currency contracts, which are accounted for as cash flow hedges and included in AOCI.
Assuming foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar remain at June 30, 2019 levels over the next 12 months, the majority of the pre-tax gain included in AOCI at June 30, 2019 is expected to be included in Other expense, net.
The Company entered into foreign currency derivative contracts which are not designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes to hedge balance sheet exposures.
The change in estimated fair value of the foreign currency contracts for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 resulted in losses of $1.1 and $1.7, respectively, compared to gains of $3.0 and $0.2 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, and was recorded in Other expense, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings.
At June 30, 2019, there were six open foreign currency derivative contracts not designated as cash flow hedges, with a total notional value of $56.1.
At June 30, 2019, the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts is the amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts, considering first the quoted market prices of comparable agreements or, in the absence of quoted market prices, factors such as interest rates, currency exchange rates, and remaining maturities.
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the Company had no Level 1 or Level 3 financial assets or liabilities, other than pension plan assets.
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the fair market value of fixed rate long-term debt was $1,066.7 and $1,061.2, respectively, compared to its carrying value of $1,100.0.
Additionally, the carrying amounts of the Company’s revolving credit facilities, which are classified as long-term debt on the balance sheet, approximate fair value due to the revolving nature of the balances.
The subsidiary guarantee with respect to the Notes is subject to release upon sale of all of the capital stock of the Subsidiary Guarantor; if the guarantee under the Company's credit agreements and other indebtedness for borrowed money is released or discharged (other than due to payment under such guarantee); or when the requirements for legal defeasance are satisfied or the obligations are discharged in accordance with the indenture.
Intercompany activities include product purchases between Guarantors and Non-Guarantors, charges for services provided by the Parent Company and various subsidiaries to other affiliates within the consolidated entity, and other intercompany activities in the normal course of business.
Intercompany activities include product purchases between Guarantors and Non-Guarantors, charges for services provided by the Parent Company and various subsidiaries to other affiliates within the consolidated entity, and other intercompany activities in the normal course of business.


item2.txt
•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s acquisition and integration planning costs, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, Sun Care reformulation charges, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expense, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.
Net earnings and earnings per share (“EPS”) for the time periods presented were impacted by impairment charges, restructuring activities, Harry’s acquisition costs, Feminine and Infant Care evaluation costs, Sun Care reformulation costs, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expenses, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax impact from those costs, and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2019, net sales were $609.2, a 1.8% decrease when compared with the prior year quarter.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 0.3% driven by declines in the Wet Shave and Feminine Care businesses, partly offset by increased organic sales in the Sun and Skin Care business.
Organic net sales declined in North America by 2.7% while International organic net sales grew 4.2%.
Lower sales in North America were driven by declines in Wet Shave, due to distribution losses, lower pricing and an unfavorable comparison to the prior year launch of Intuition f.a.b.®, partly offset by growth in Sun and Skin Care.
In International markets, organic sales increased in Wet Shave, benefiting from a favorable comparison to prior year sales in Japan, and in Sun and Skin Care, driven by strong Bulldog sales.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, net sales decreased 4.9%.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Jack Black, the Playtex gloves sale, and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 4.3% versus the prior year period.
From a geographic perspective, organic net sales in North America declined 6.1% while International organic net sales decreased 1.1%.
The decline in organic net sales was across all segments in North America and International Wet Shave mainly in Europe, driven by competitive pressure in key retailers and the anniversary of prior year product launches and promotions.
Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was 45.7%, down 160 basis points as compared to the prior year period.
A portion of the decline was a result of unfavorable price mix from price decreases for Wet Shave and Feminine Care in North America partially offset by favorable Sun and Skin Care returns.
The effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was 4.1% compared to 40.2% in the prior year period.
The effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 includes a $549.0 impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, a portion of which are non-deductible, resulting in a lower tax benefit on a net loss.
The rate was also unfavorably impacted by a $4.7 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act. The effective tax rate for the prior period includes a $17.4 increase in tax expense related to net charges from the Tax Act. Excluding the tax impact of impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s acquisition costs, advisory expenses incurred in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine Care and Infant Care businesses, Sun Care reformulation charges, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expenses, the impact of the Tax Act, and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the adjusted effective tax rate was 24.4% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018.
The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts.
Wet Shave net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 3.9%, inclusive of a 2.2% decline due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $5.8, or 1.7%, as compared to the prior year, as volume growth, primarily in Asia Pacific, was more than offset by the impact of lower pricing and unfavorable product mix in North America.
Total international organic net sales increased 4.9%, with growth in Men's and Women's System's and Disposables, and was largely attributable to Japan and the comparison to the prior year period which included significant inventory reductions.
North America organic net sales declined 8.9% reflecting on-going competitive intensity, cycling of the prior year period's launch of Intuition f.a.b. and Hydro Sense®, and the impact of lower pricing on our Men's and Women's Systems products.
Wet Shave net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased 7.2%, inclusive of a 2.2% decline due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $48.7, or 5.0%.
As a result, segment net sales and segment profit historically have been higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 3.4%, inclusive of a 0.9% decline due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales increased $7.0, or 4.3% driven by growth in all geographic regions with the exception of Asia Pacific.
North America organic net sales increased 5.0%, as the expected shift in phasing of sales to this fiscal quarter due to the later Easter holiday this year, as well as lower returns this fiscal quarter, more than offset the impact of weaker category consumption trends related largely to unfavorable early season weather.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased 1.6%, inclusive of a 4.6% increase due to the acquisition of Jack Black, a 0.3% decline due to the Playtex gloves sale, and a 1.3% decline due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased $5.4, or 1.4%, with volume declines primarily in North America Sun Care impacted by the Sun Care reformulation project.
Feminine Care net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased $16.8, or 6.8%, inclusive of a 0.3% decline due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 6.5% driven by volume declines in Playtex Gentle Glide® branded tampons and Stayfree® branded pads, partially offset by growth in Playtex Sport and o.b. tampons.
All Other net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased 2.8%, inclusive of a 0.7% decline due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $2.0 or 2.1%, as declines in volumes of Diaper Genie and infant bottles and unfavorable price mix from Pet Care products were partially offset by growth in infant cups and mealtime products.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2019, general corporate expenses were $13.1, or 2.2% of net sales, compared to $17.7, or 2.9% of net sales, in the prior year quarter.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, general corporate expenses were $43.5, or 2.7% of net sales, compared to $55.6, or 3.3% of net sales, in the prior year period.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the declines in corporate expense were driven by savings generated through Project Fuel, including lower compensation expense and prior year one-time expenses such as severance and asset write offs.
Our cash flows are affected by the seasonality of our Sun Care products, resulting in higher net sales and increased cash generated in the second and third quarter each year.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our CEO and CFO, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of June 30, 2019.


