item1.txt
The Company adopted the ASU for revenue recognition beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $5.3 inventory return asset included in Miscellaneous receivables on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 1, 2018 with an offsetting increase to the returns reserve in Other current liabilities.
The Company adopted the standard beginning October 1, 2018.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018 and noted that the impact on its financial statements was not material.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases.
The Company has begun assessing the impact of the standard including identification of the lease portfolio and business process changes required to correctly apply the guidance.
The Company does not expect to early adopt this guidance and is in the process of evaluating its impact on the financial statements; however, the Company believes the primary impacts will be a material increase in both assets and liabilities to include operating leases on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
On October 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 which provided guidance for accounting for revenue from contracts with customers.
The Company adopted the standard beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and applied the standard to contracts not completed at the adoption date.
The adoption resulted in changes to how the Company reflects returns and advanced payments received from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Refer to Note 15 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the Company’s disaggregation of revenue by operating segments and products.
The Company’s revenue is from the sale of its products.
The Company’s standard sales terms are final and returns or exchanges are not permitted with the exception of end of season returns for Sun Care products.
The Company had a reserve for returns of $31.3 and $58.6 at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
The ASU indicated that a return asset should be recognized for returns expected to be resold, measured at the carrying amount of goods at the time of sale, less the expected costs to recover the goods and any expected reduction in value.
The Company had an inventory return asset of $5.3 as of the adoption date.
The Company has recorded an inventory return asset of $1.7 as of December 31, 2018.
The inventory return asset and the reserve for returns are included in Other current assets and Other current liabilities, respectively, on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In addition, the Company offers a variety of programs, such as consumer coupons and rebate programs, primarily to its retail customers, designed to promote sales of its products.
Such programs require periodic payments and allowances based on estimated results of specific programs and are recorded as a reduction to Net sales.
The Company accrues, at the time of sale, the estimated total payments and allowances associated with each transaction.
Taxes the Company collects on behalf of governmental authorities, which are generally included in the price to the customer, are also recorded as a reduction of Net sales.
The Company has contract liabilities as a result of advanced payments received from certain customers before goods have been delivered and all performance obligations have been completed.
(“Jack Black”), a men’s luxury skincare products company based in the U.S., for $90.2, net of cash acquired.
The Company has recognized the assets and liabilities of Jack Black based on estimates of their acquisition date fair values.
The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including goodwill and other intangible assets, requires significant judgment.
The Company completed the final fair value determination during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
At March 1, 2018, the opening balance sheet for Jack Black included net assets acquired of $93.9 and consisted of working capital and other net assets of $11.9 (including cash of $3.7), other intangible assets of $47.7 and goodwill of $34.3, representing the value of expansion into new markets.
All assets are included in the Company’s Sun and Skin Care segment.
The December 31, 2017 transition tax expense was offset by the estimated benefit of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities of $81.0, resulting in a net charge of $16.2 for the period, which was included as a component of income tax expense.
The Company has tax loss carryforwards and tax credits, a portion of which are expected to be used to partially offset amounts payable over eight years related to the one-time transition tax on foreign earnings.
For the three months ended December 31, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.2 of RSE awards that would have otherwise been dilutive, because the Company reported a net loss.
The Company had indefinite-lived intangible assets of $830.4 ($181.3 in Wet Shave, $475.4 in Sun and Skin Care, $29.9 in Feminine Care, and $143.8 in All Other) at December 31, 2018, a decrease of $1.1 from September 30, 2018, resulting from changes in foreign currency translation rates.
The value of the Infant Care reporting unit decreased and required an impairment because of higher discount rates, lower forecasted revenue growth rates, and earnings margins, which resulted in lower projected long-term future cash flows when interim impairment analysis was performed.
The Company had outstanding, variable-rate international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $10.1 and $8.2 as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company also sponsors or participates in several other non-U.S. pension and postretirement arrangements, including various retirement and termination benefit plans, some of which are required by local law or coordinated with government-sponsored plans, which are not significant in the aggregate and, therefore, are not included in the information presented below.
The Company did not repurchase any shares under this authorization during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Any future share repurchases may be made in the open market, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise, in such amounts and at such times as the Company deems appropriate based upon prevailing market conditions, business needs, and other factors.
At times, the Company enters into contractual arrangements (also referred to as derivatives), to reduce its exposure to foreign currency.
The Company has master netting agreements with all of its counterparties that allow for the settlement of contracts in an asset position with contracts in a liability position in the event of default.
A significant share of the Company’s sales is tied to currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company’s reporting currency.
Additionally, the Company’s foreign subsidiaries enter into internal and external transactions that create non-functional currency balance sheet positions at the foreign subsidiary level.
Changes in the value of the non-functional currency balance sheet positions in relation to the foreign subsidiary’s local currency results in an exchange gain or loss recorded in Other expense, net.
At December 31, 2018, the Company maintained a cash flow hedging program related to foreign currency risk.
The Company entered into a series of forward currency contracts to hedge cash flow uncertainty associated with currency fluctuations.
The Company had unrealized pre-tax gains of $1.9 and $3.9 at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively, on these forward currency contracts, which are accounted for as cash flow hedges, and are included in AOCI.
Assuming foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar remain at December 31, 2018 levels over the next 12 months, most of the pre-tax gain included in AOCI at December 31, 2018 is expected to be included in Other (income) expense, net.
The Company entered into foreign currency derivative contracts which are not designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes to hedge balance sheet exposures.
The change in estimated fair value of the foreign currency contracts for the three months ended December 31, 2018 resulted in a loss of $1.3, compared to a loss of $0.2 for the three months ended December 31, 2017, and was recorded in Other expense, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings.
At December 31, 2018, there were five open foreign currency derivative contracts not designated as cash flow hedges, with a total notional value of $62.2.
At December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts is the amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts, considering first the quoted market prices of comparable agreements or, in the absence of quoted market prices, factors such as interest rates, currency exchange rates, and remaining maturities.
At December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, the Company had no Level 1 or Level 3 financial assets or liabilities, other than pension plan assets.
Additionally, the carrying amounts of the Company’s revolving credit facilities, which are classified as long-term debt on the balance sheet, approximate fair value due to the revolving nature of the balances.


item2.txt
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act.
•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.
Total assets sold were $3.1, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The gain on sale of Playtex gloves recognized for fiscal year 2018 was $15.3.
Net earnings and earnings per share (“EPS”) for the time periods presented were impacted by restructuring activities, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax impact from those costs, and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, net sales were $457.1, a 2.4% decrease when compared with the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Jack Black, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 3.5% versus the prior year period, as overall volumes decreased primarily in North America and Latin America offset by growth in Europe and Asia Pacific.
Gross profit was $193.5 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as compared to $199.3 in the prior year period.
Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was 42.3%, representing a 30 basis point decline over the prior year gross margin of 42.6%.
Interest expense associated with debt for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $16.0, a decrease from the prior year period of $17.8.
The decline in interest expense was the result of lower outstanding debt under the U.S. revolving credit facility in fiscal 2019.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was 105.7% compared to 79.8% in the prior year period.
The effective tax rate for the current period includes a $4.7 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act. The rate was also unfavorably impacted by $18.5 of restructuring and other related costs in lower tax rate jurisdictions and unfavorable tax adjustments, including the share-based payment guidance.
The effective tax rate for the prior period includes a $16.2 increase in tax expense related to net charges from the Tax Act. In addition, the lower U.S. Federal tax rate was more than offset by unfavorable tax adjustments related to stock compensation and prior year provision estimates, yielding a combined increase of 5% to the effective tax rate.
Excluding the tax impact of restructuring charges, investor settlement expenses, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the impact of the Tax Act, and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the adjusted effective tax rate was 26.6% and 34.1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively.
The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts.
As a result, segment net sales and segment profit historically have been higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 12.9%, inclusive of a 20.0% increase due to the acquisition of Jack Black, partially offset by a 1.7% decline from the disposition of the Playtex gloves business and a 1.5% decline due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of the Jack Black acquisition, sale of the Playtex gloves business, and currency movements, organic net sales decreased $2.3, or 3.9%, primarily driven by sales declines in key Asia Pacific and Latin American markets that were impacted by supply constraints related to the Sun Care reformulation project announced in the prior quarter.
All Other net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 13.8%, inclusive of a 0.6% decline from the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales declined 13.2% compared to the prior year quarter driven by lower Diaper Genie sales and the impact of the Toys "R" Us liquidation.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, general corporate expenses were $13.7, or 3.0% of net sales, compared to $18.7, or 4.0% of net sales, in the prior year quarter.
Cash flow used by operating activities was $46.4 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $24.1 during the same period in the prior year.
Due to the seasonality of our Company’s business, primarily in Sun Care, the first fiscal quarter is typically the lowest operating cash flow quarter of the year.
The decline in operating cash flow in the current quarter was primarily driven by the build of inventory for the upcoming Sun Care season in North America, the processing of returns related to the fiscal 2018 season, and the timing of payments.
Cash flow used by investing activities was $2.9 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to cash from investing activities of $11.2 during the same period in the prior year.
The change was primarily due to the sale of the Playtex gloves business in fiscal 2018 for $19.0, partially offset by reduced capital expenditures of $9.4 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to $11.6 during the same period in the prior year.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our CEO and CFO, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of December 31, 2018.


part2.txt
Item 6.


