item1.txt
The Company adopted the ASU for revenue recognition beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $5.3 inventory return asset included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 1, 2018 with an offsetting increase to the returns reserve in Other current liabilities.
The Company adopted the standard beginning October 1, 2018.
The impact of the adoption of the ASU resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset and a credit to retained earnings of $3.9.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018 and noted that the impact on its financial statements was not material.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases.
The Company has begun assessing the impact of the standard, including identification of the lease portfolio and business process changes required to correctly apply the guidance.
The Company currently does not expect to early adopt this guidance and is in the process of evaluating its impact on the financial statements; however, the Company anticipates the primary impacts will be a material increase in both assets and liabilities to include operating leases on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
On October 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 which provided guidance for accounting for revenue from contracts with customers.
The Company adopted the standard beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and applied the standard to contracts not completed at the adoption date.
The adoption resulted in changes to how the Company reflects returns and advanced payments received from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Refer to Note 15 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the Company’s disaggregation of revenue by operating segments and products.
The Company’s revenue is from the sale of its products.
The Company’s standard sales terms are final and returns or exchanges are not permitted with the exception of end of season returns for Sun Care products.
The Company had a reserve for returns of $37.9 and $58.6 at March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
The adoption of ASU 2014-09 required changes in the presentation of returns on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, namely that a return asset should be recognized for returns expected to be resold, measured at the carrying amount of goods at the time of sale, less the expected costs to recover the goods and any expected reduction in value.
The Company had an inventory return asset of $5.3 as of the adoption date.
The Company recorded an inventory return asset of $2.9 as of March 31, 2019.
In addition, the Company offers a variety of programs, such as consumer coupons and rebate programs, primarily to its retail customers, designed to promote sales of its products.
Such programs require periodic payments and allowances based on estimated results of specific programs and are recorded as a reduction to Net sales.
The Company accrues, at the time of sale, the estimated total payments and allowances associated with each transaction.
Additionally, the Company offers programs directly to consumers to promote the sale of its products.
Taxes the Company collects on behalf of governmental authorities, which are generally included in the price to the customer, are also recorded as a reduction of Net sales.
(“Jack Black”), a men’s luxury skincare products company based in the U.S., for $90.2, net of cash acquired.
The Company has recognized the assets and liabilities of Jack Black based on estimates of their acquisition date fair values.
At March 1, 2018, the opening balance sheet for Jack Black included net assets acquired of $93.9 and consisted of working capital and other net assets of $11.9 (including cash of $3.7), other intangible assets of $47.7 and goodwill of $34.3, representing the value of expansion into new markets.
All assets are included in the Company’s Sun and Skin Care segment.
For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the Company had income tax expense of $20.7 and $47.1, respectively, on Earnings before income taxes of $85.8 and $118.9, respectively.
The March 31, 2018 transition tax expense was offset by the estimated benefit of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities of $79.3, resulting in a net charge of $17.4 for the period, which was included as a component of income tax expense.
The Company has tax loss carryforwards and tax credits, a portion of which are expected to be used to partially offset amounts payable over eight years related to the one-time transition tax on foreign earnings.
The Company had indefinite-lived intangible assets of $828.9 ($179.6 in Wet Shave, $475.6 in Sun and Skin Care, $29.9 in Feminine Care, and $143.8 in All Other) at March 31, 2019, a decrease of $2.6 from September 30, 2018, resulting from changes in foreign currency translation rates.
The value of the Infant Care reporting unit decreased and required an impairment because of higher discount rates, lower forecasted revenue growth rates, and earnings margins, which resulted in lower projected long-term future cash flows when interim impairment analysis was performed.
The difference between the carrying amount of the trade receivables sold and the sum of the cash received is recorded as a loss on sale of receivables in Other expense (income), net in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The Company had outstanding, variable-rate international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $13.9 and $8.2 as of March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company has master netting agreements with all of its counterparties that allow for the settlement of contracts in an asset position with contracts in a liability position in the event of default.
A significant share of the Company’s sales is tied to currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company’s reporting currency.
Additionally, the Company’s foreign subsidiaries enter into internal and external transactions that create non-functional currency balance sheet positions at the foreign subsidiary level.
Changes in the value of the non-functional currency balance sheet positions in relation to the foreign subsidiary’s local currency results in an exchange gain or loss recorded in Other income, net.
The primary currency to which the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are exposed is the U.S. dollar.
At March 31, 2019, the Company maintained a cash flow hedging program related to foreign currency risk.
The Company entered into a series of forward currency contracts to hedge cash flow uncertainty associated with currency fluctuations.
The Company had unrealized pre-tax gains of $2.4 and $3.9 at March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively, on these forward currency contracts, which are accounted for as cash flow hedges, and are included in AOCI.
Assuming foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar remain at March 31, 2019 levels over the next 12 months, the majority of the pre-tax gain included in AOCI at March 31, 2019 is expected to be included in Other income, net.
The Company entered into foreign currency derivative contracts which are not designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes to hedge balance sheet exposures.
The change in estimated fair value of the foreign currency contracts for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 resulted in a gain of $0.7 and a loss of $0.6, respectively, compared to losses of $2.6 and $2.8 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, and was recorded in Other income, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings.
At March 31, 2019, there were six open foreign currency derivative contracts not designated as cash flow hedges, with a total notional value of $55.8.
At March 31, 2019, the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts is the amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts, considering first the quoted market prices of comparable agreements or, in the absence of quoted market prices, factors such as interest rates, currency exchange rates, and remaining maturities.
At March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the Company had no Level 1 or Level 3 financial assets or liabilities, other than pension plan assets.
At March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the fair market value of fixed rate long-term debt was $1,053.2 and $1,061.2, respectively, compared to its carrying value of $1,100.0 and $1,100.0, respectively.
Additionally, the carrying amounts of the Company’s revolving credit facilities, which are classified as long-term debt on the balance sheet, approximate fair value due to the revolving nature of the balances.
The estimated fair value of cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings, and the revolving credit agreements have been determined based on Level 2 inputs.
The subsidiary guarantee with respect to the Notes is subject to release upon sale of all of the capital stock of the Subsidiary Guarantor; if the guarantee under the Company's credit agreements and other indebtedness for borrowed money is released or discharged (other than due to payment under such guarantee); or when the requirements for legal defeasance are satisfied or the obligations are discharged in accordance with the indenture.
On May 8, 2019, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (“Merger Agreement”) to acquire Harry’s, Inc., an innovative shaving retailer, for total consideration of approximately $1,370.0 in cash and stock, subject to adjustment pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement.


item2.txt
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as restructuring charges, Feminine and Infant Care evaluation costs, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act.
Net earnings and earnings per share (“EPS”) for the time periods presented were impacted by restructuring activities, Feminine and Infant Care evaluation costs, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expenses, Sun Care reformulation costs, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax impact from those costs, and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
For the second quarter of fiscal 2019, net sales were $546.7, a 10.1% decrease when compared with the prior year quarter.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Jack Black and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 8.9% driven by declines in Wet Shave, North America Sun and Skin Care and Feminine Care businesses, partly offset by Infant Care and International Sun and Skin Care businesses.
Organic net sales in both North America and Internationally declined 9%.
The decline in net sales was driven by North America Wet Shave, Sun and Skin Care and Feminine Care, driven by competitive pressure in key retailers and product launches in the prior year period, as well as declines in International, which were largely driven by expected lower Wet Shave net sales in Asia Pacific due to commercial distribution changes implemented in Japan that created a difficult comparison to the prior year.
For the first six months of fiscal 2019, net sales decreased 6.7%.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Jack Black, the Playtex gloves sale, and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 6.5% versus the prior year period.
From a geographic perspective, organic net sales in North America declined 8% while International decreased 4%.
The decline in organic net sales was primarily due to declines across all segments in North America and International Wet Shave, driven by competitive pressure in key retailers and anniversary of prior year product launches and promotions.
Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was 45.9%, representing a 360 basis point decline over the prior year gross margin of 49.5%.
The decline was the result of lower volumes across Wet Shave, Sun and Skin Care, and Feminine Care (90 basis points) from prior year product launches and competition, unfavorable price mix in Wet Shave and Feminine Care in North America (140 basis points), and unfavorable cost mix (120 basis points) in Wet Shave.
Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was 44.3%, down 220 basis points as compared to the prior year period.
The impact of lower volumes across all segments (90 basis points) from prior year product launches and competition, unfavorable price mix in Wet Shave related to a price decrease in North America and Feminine Care (90 basis points), and unfavorable cost mix in Wet Shave and All Other (40 basis points).
Interest expense associated with debt for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $16.4, a decrease from the prior year period of $18.2.
The decline in interest expense was the result of lower outstanding debt as the Company paid the Term Loan Due April 2019 offset by additional borrowings under the U.S. revolving credit facility in fiscal 2019.
The effective tax rate for the prior period includes a $17.4 increase in tax expense related to net charges from the Tax Act. Excluding the tax impact of restructuring charges, advisory expenses incurred in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine Care and Infant Care businesses, investor settlement expenses, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the impact of the Tax Act, and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the adjusted effective tax rate was 24.9% and 24.8% for the first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively.
The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts.
Wet Shave net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 14.7%, inclusive of a 2.8% decline, due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $41.0, or 11.9%, reflecting the impact of lower volumes and pricing in North America and lower volumes in International markets.
North America sales decreased as a result of declines in key retailers, price decreases in Men’s and Women’s Systems, and the anniversary of the launch of Intuition f.a.b.™ in the prior year quarter.
International sales declines were led by the Asia Pacific region, primarily driven by an expected quarterly phasing shift in sales in Japan and the impact of new product launches in the prior year.
Wet Shave net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased 8.9%, inclusive of a 2.2% decline due to currency movements.
As a result, segment net sales and segment profit historically have been higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 4.7%, inclusive of a 3.5% increase due to the acquisition of Jack Black and a 1.6% decline due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of the Jack Black acquisition and currency movements, organic net sales decreased $10.1, or 6.6% with declines in North America impacted by the Sun Care reformulation project and phasing of sales to the third quarter, partially offset by growth in Asia Pacific and Latin America, while Europe remained flat.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased 0.2%, inclusive of an 8.1% increase due to the acquisition of Jack Black, a 0.5% decline due to the Playtex gloves sale and a 1.5% decline due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased $12.4, or 5.9%, with volume declines primarily in North America and Latin America.
All Other net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased 3.7%, inclusive of a 0.8% decline due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $1.8 or 2.9%, as declines in volumes of Diaper Genie and infant bottles were partially offset by growth in infant cups and mealtime products.
For the second quarter of fiscal 2019, general corporate expenses were $16.7, or 3.1% of net sales, compared to $19.2, or 3.2% of net sales, in the prior year quarter.
For the first six months of fiscal 2019, general corporate expenses were $30.4, or 3.0% of net sales, compared to $37.9, or 3.5% of net sales, in the prior year period.
Our cash flows are affected by the seasonality of our sun care products, resulting in higher net sales and increased cash generated in the second and third quarter each year.
The decline in operating cash flow in the first six months of fiscal 2019 was primarily driven by working capital changes as the build in inventory for the Sun Care season in North America and the shift of Easter into the fiscal third quarter.
The change was primarily due to the acquisition of Jack Black for $90.3 in the prior year period offset by the sale of the Playtex gloves business in fiscal 2018 for $19.0.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our CEO and CFO, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of March 31, 2019.


