item1.txt
In March 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including requiring excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies to be recognized as income tax benefits or expenses in the consolidated statement of earnings.
As a result, the Company recognized tax deficiencies of $0.7 through income taxes during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 rather than additional paid-in capital.
The amended guidance requires an entity to perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, and recognize an impairment charge to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the fair value and does not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.
During fiscal 2017, the Company established a cross-functional implementation team, including representatives from all of its businesses globally, to analyze the current processes in place for the recognition of revenue and identify potential differences that would result from application of the new guidance.
The Company noted that the adoption of the standard will reclassify certain operating cash inflows associated with the $150 uncommitted master accounts receivable purchase agreement entered into with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the purchaser on September 15, 2017 (the “Accounts Receivable Facility”) to investing cash inflows in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows by an amount yet to be determined.
Jack Black, L.L.C. On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a men's luxury skincare products company based in the U.S., for $90.2, net of cash acquired.
The Company has recognized the assets and liabilities of Jack Black based on preliminary estimates of their acquisition date fair values.
The Company will complete the final fair value determination during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, the opening balance sheet for Jack Black included net assets acquired of $93.9 and consisted of working capital and other net assets of $11.9 (including cash of $3.7), other intangible assets of $47.7 and goodwill of $34.3, representing the value of expansion into new markets.
Acquisition and integration costs related to Jack Black totaling $0.5 and $3.1 in the third quarter and nine months ending June 30, 2018, respectively, were included in Selling, general and administrative expense.
The Company incurred restructuring charges of $15.9 and $19.6 related to Project Fuel in the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
In addition, pre-tax Selling, general and administrative expense of $0.5 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, associated with certain information technology enablement expenses related to Project Fuel were included in Consulting, project implementation and management and other exit costs.
2013 Restructuring charges were only allocated to the Company's Wet Shave, Sun and Skin Care and Feminine Care segments for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017.
The Company does not include restructuring costs in the results of its reportable segments.
In addition, pre-tax costs of $0.3 and $0.7 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017, respectively, associated with obsolescence charges related to the exit of certain non-core product lines as part of the 2013 Restructuring, were included in Cost of products sold.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company had income tax expense of $9.3 and $56.4, respectively, on Earnings before income taxes of $21.4 and $140.3, respectively.
The difference between the federal statutory rate and the effective rate for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 is primarily due to a $17.4 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act, as discussed below, and the impact of the goodwill impairment.
The Company performed an interim impairment analysis using financial information through June 30, 2018 and forecasts for cash flows developed using the Company's three year strategic plan.
The interim impairment analysis required an increase in discount rates across all reporting units to align with market-based assumptions and company specific risks.
As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge on the goodwill of the Infant Care reporting unit totaling $24.4 as of June 30, 2018.
The Company will continue to evaluate the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 for potential impairment.
During fiscal 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges of $312.0 and $7.0 on its Playtex and Edge brand names, respectively.
The dilution reserve, which represents the Company's retained interest in sold receivables, was $13.7 and $8.2 as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, and was recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a receivable.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 2.1 shares of its common stock for $124.4, all of which were purchased under the Board authorization from May 2015.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company paid $0.1 in cash dividends related to the vesting of RSE awards, which had been declared and accrued during prior fiscal years.
Changes in the value of the non-functional currency balance sheet positions in relation to the foreign subsidiary's local currency results in an exchange gain or loss recorded in Other expense (income), net.
At June 30, 2018, the Company maintained a cash flow hedging program related to foreign currency risk.
The Company had an unrealized pre-tax gain of $2.6 and an unrealized pre-tax loss of $1.6 at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, on these forward currency contracts accounted for as cash flow hedges, which are included in AOCI.
Assuming foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar remain at June 30, 2018 levels over the next 12 months, the majority of the pre-tax gain included in AOCI at June 30, 2018 is expected to be included in Other expense (income), net.
The Company entered into foreign currency derivative contracts which are not designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes to hedge balance sheet exposures.
The change in estimated fair value of the foreign currency contracts for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 resulted in gains of $3.0 and $0.2, respectively, and was recorded in Other expense (income), net.
The change in estimated fair value of the foreign currency contracts for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017 resulted in gains of $1.6 and $2.0, respectively.
There were four open foreign currency derivative contracts which were not designated as cash flow hedges at June 30, 2018, with a total notional value of $48.0.
At June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the fair market value of fixed rate long-term debt was $1,059.5 and $1,143.8, respectively, compared to its carrying value of $1,096.5 and $1,095.7, respectively.
Additionally, the carrying amounts of the Company's revolving credit facilities, which are classified as long-term debt on the balance sheet, approximate fair value due to the revolving nature of the balances.
At June 30, 2018, the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts is the amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts, considering first the quoted market prices of comparable agreements or, in the absence of quoted market prices, factors such as interest rates, currency exchange rates and remaining maturities.
Segment performance is evaluated based on segment profit, exclusive of general corporate expenses, share-based compensation costs, impairment charges, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, costs associated with restructuring initiatives, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business and the amortization of intangible assets.
The Company's operating model includes some shared business functions across the segments, including product warehousing and distribution, transaction processing functions and in most cases a combined sales force and management teams.


item2.txt
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as "adjusted" or "organic" and exclude items such as impairment charges, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Jack Black, L.L.C.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
Organic net sales and segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions and dispositions.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the impact of acquisitions includes net sales and segment profit activity for Jack Black, which was acquired in March 2018.
For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the impact of acquisitions also includes October 2017 net sales and segment profit for Bulldog Skincare Holdings Limited (“Bulldog”), which was acquired in October 2016.
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as impairment charges, Jack Black integration costs, restructuring charges, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act.
•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as impairment charges, Jack Black integration costs, restructuring charges, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.
Net earnings and earnings per share ("EPS") for the time periods presented were impacted by the impairment charge, the acquisition of Jack Black, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, restructuring activities, the related tax impact from these charges and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2017, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 4.4% versus the prior year period.
The decline in organic net sales was primarily due to declines in Wet Shave, particularly in North America, driven by competitive pressure and category declines and Feminine Care volume declines, partially offset by growth in Skin Care due to Bulldog and Wet Ones.
Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was 48.8%, representing a 170 basis point decline over the prior year period gross margin of 50.5%, primarily driven by unfavorable volume mix within Wet Shave, unfavorable cost mix, primarily related to higher input costs, and negative price mix in the Sun Care business, due to increased promotional activity in support of new products and a higher level of product returns.
Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was 47.4%, down 220 basis points as compared to the prior year period.
The effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 includes a $17.4 increase in tax expense related to net charges from the Tax Act and the impact of the Infant Care goodwill impairment, which more than offset the lower U.S. Federal tax rate.
Excluding the impairment charge, gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, net tax expense from the Tax Act, costs related to the acquisition and integration of Jack Black and restructuring charges, the adjusted effective tax rate was 24.4% and 23.9% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2017, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts.
Wet Shave net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased 4.9%, inclusive of a 2.2% increase due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $25.3, or 7.1%.
Total Women's Systems organic net sales increased over 2%, with growth in North America and Latin America, driven by Intuition f.a.b., partly offset by declines in Asia Pacific, related to the inventory reduction in Japan.
Wet Shave net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased 2.7%, inclusive of a 3.1% increase due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $58.6, or 5.8%.
As a result, segment net sales and segment profit tend to be higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 1.1%, inclusive of a 4.8% increase due to acquisitions, a 2.2% decline due to the Playtex gloves sale and a 1.1% increase due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased $4.2, or 2.6%, as growth in global Skin Care, Bulldog, and International Sun Care, was more than offset by sales declines in North America Sun Care.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased 1.3%, inclusive of a 3.4% increase due to acquisitions, a 2.8% decline due to the Playtex gloves sale and a 1.3% increase due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased $2.2, or 0.6%, with strong performance in Skin Care as growth in Bulldog and Wet Ones during the first nine months were offset by declines in Hawaiian Tropic and the exit of the private label Sun Care business.
Feminine Care net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased $2.3, or 2.7%, inclusive of a 0.2% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 2.9% due to the decline in volumes for Tampons and Pads, while total Liners, led by Carefree, increased 5.2%.
Feminine Care net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased $11.7, or 4.5%, inclusive of a 0.3% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 4.8% driven by volume declines across Gentle Glide, o.b. and Sport branded tampons and Stayfree branded pads, partially offset by growth in Carefree branded liners.
All Other net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 3.5%, inclusive of a 1.0% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales increased $0.8, or 2.5%, primarily due to growth in Pet Care and favorable price mix in Infant Care.
All Other net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased 2.9%, inclusive of a 0.9% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $3.7 or 3.8%, as declines in volumes of Diaper Genie and infant cups and bottles were partially offset by growth in pet care products.
All Other segment profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $5.5, a decrease of $1.2, or 17.9%, inclusive of a 3.0% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
All Other segment profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $17.0, a decrease of $4.3 or 20.3% compared to the prior year period, inclusive of a 2.7% increase due to the impact of currency movements.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
There have been no material changes to the disclosure regarding the legal proceedings set forth in Part I, Item 3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
In fiscal 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure.
Project Fuel follows on several years of productivity initiatives, as well as the initiatives launched with the overall Separation program.
Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable.
If we are unable to realize the anticipated savings our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected.


