item1.txt
In March 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including requiring excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies to be recognized as income tax benefits or expenses in the consolidated statement of earnings.
As a result, the Company recognized excess tax deficiencies of $0.6 through income taxes during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 rather than additional paid-in capital.
During fiscal 2017, the Company established a cross-functional implementation team, including representatives from all of its businesses globally, to analyze the current processes in place for the recognition of revenue and identify potential differences that would result from application of the new guidance.
The Company is still assessing the impact of the standard on its consolidated financial statements and on related disclosures.
In addition, pre-tax costs of $0.3 for the three months ended December 31, 2016, associated with obsolescence charges related to the exit of certain non-core product lines as part of the restructuring were included in Cost of products sold.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company made severance and related benefit payments of $0.7.
As a result of the Tax Act, the Company expects to repatriate a significant amount of cash from foreign subsidiaries.
The Company had indefinite-lived intangible assets of $834.5 ($185.1 in Wet Shave, $475.7 in Sun and Skin Care, $29.9 in Feminine Care and $143.8 in All Other) at December 31, 2017, an increase of $0.6 from September 30, 2017, related to changes in foreign currency translation rates.
During fiscal 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges of $312.0 and $7.0 on its Playtex and Edge brand names, respectively.
The dilution reserve, which represents the Company's retained interest in sold receivables, was $7.5 and $8.2 as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively, and was recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a receivable.
The difference between the carrying amount of the trade receivables sold and the sum of the cash received was recorded as a loss on sale of receivables in Other expense (income), net in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The Company had outstanding, variable-rate international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $21.1 and $19.4 as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
The Company also sponsors or participates in a number of other non-U.S. pension and postretirement arrangements, including various retirement and termination benefit plans, some of which are required by local law or coordinated with government-sponsored plans, which are not significant in the aggregate and, therefore, are not included in the information presented below.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the Company repurchased 1.9 shares of its common stock for $115.2, all of which were purchased under the previous authorization from May 2015.
Any future share repurchases would be made in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, in such amounts and at such times as the Company deems appropriate based upon prevailing market conditions, business needs and other factors.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the Company paid $0.1 cash dividends related to the vesting of RSE awards, which had been declared and accrued during prior fiscal years.
At times, the Company enters into contractual arrangements (derivatives) to reduce its exposure to foreign currency.
A significant share of the Company's sales are tied to currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company's reporting currency.
Additionally, the Company's foreign subsidiaries enter into internal and external transactions that create non-functional currency balance sheet positions at the foreign subsidiary level.
Changes in the value of the non-functional currency balance sheet positions in relation to the foreign subsidiary's local currency results in an exchange gain or loss recorded in Other expense (income), net.
The primary currency to which the Company's foreign subsidiaries are exposed is the U.S. dollar.
At December 31, 2017, the Company maintained a cash flow hedging program related to foreign currency risk.
The Company entered into a series of forward currency contracts to hedge cash flow uncertainty associated with currency fluctuations.
The Company had unrealized pre-tax losses of $1.3 and $1.6 at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively, on these forward currency contracts accounted for as cash flow hedges, which are included in AOCI.
Assuming foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar remain at December 31, 2017 levels over the next twelve months, the majority of the pre-tax loss included in AOCI at December 31, 2017 is expected to be included in Other (income) expense, net.
The Company entered into foreign currency derivative contracts which are not designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes to hedge balance sheet exposures.
The change in estimated fair value of the foreign currency contracts for the three months ended December 31, 2017 resulted in a loss of $0.2, compared to a gain of $3.5 for the three months ended December 31, 2016, and was recorded in Other expense (income), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings.
There were six open foreign currency derivative contracts, which were not designated as cash flow hedges at December 31, 2017, with a total notional value of $71.0.
At December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts is the amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts, considering first the quoted market prices of comparable agreements or, in the absence of quoted market prices, factors such as interest rates, currency exchange rates and remaining maturities.
At December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, the Company had no level 1 or level 3 financial assets or liabilities, other than pension plan assets.
Additionally, the carrying amounts of the Company's revolving credit facilities, which are classified as long-term debt on the balance sheet, approximate fair value due to the revolving nature of the balances.
The Company's operating model includes some shared business functions across the segments, including product warehousing and distribution, transaction processing functions and in most cases a combined sales force and management teams.
The subsidiary guarantee with respect to the Notes is subject to release upon sale of all of the capital stock of the Subsidiary Guarantor; if the guarantee under the Company's credit agreements and other indebtedness for borrowed money is released or discharged (other than due to payment under such guarantee); or when the requirements for legal defeasance are satisfied or the obligations are discharged in accordance with the indenture.


item2.txt
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as the gain on the disposition of the gloves business, restructuring charges, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act. Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in United States ("U.S.") dollars.
Net earnings and earnings per share ("EPS") for the time periods presented were impacted by the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, restructuring activities, the related tax impact from those costs and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, net sales were $468.3, a 3.4% decrease when compared with the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Bulldog, the sale of the Playtex gloves business and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 5.2% versus the prior year period, as overall volumes decreased primarily in North America Wet Shave and Feminine Care.
We expect net sales for the full year to be flat to up 1% compared to the prior year, including a currency benefit of approximately 2%, that is partially offset by a 0.5% decline from the Playtex gloves divestiture, net of acquisitions.
In Sun and Skin Care, organic net sales are expected to grow in the mid to low single digits through product innovation, market expansion and distribution gains, including organic growth in Bulldog.
The gross profit decline was driven by lower sales volumes and unfavorable product mix, higher promotional activity in Wet Shave and Sun and Skin Care, and increased product costs.
Higher product costs were primarily driven by lower production volumes in both Feminine Care and Sun and Skin Care manufacturing compared to the prior year, increased costs related to Wet Shave footprint changes, higher commodity costs, and an unfavorable impact from transactional currency.
Selling, general and administrative expense was $97.2 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, or 20.8% of net sales, as compared to $93.8 in the prior year period, or 19.3% of net sales.
Other (income) expense, net was $3.0 of expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to $1.9 of income in the prior year period, reflecting the impact of foreign currency exchange contract gains and losses and the revaluation of nonfunctional currency balance sheet exposures.
The effective tax rate for the current period includes a $16.2 increase in tax expense related to net charges from the Tax Act. In addition the lower U.S. Federal tax rate was more than offset by unfavorable tax adjustments related to stock compensation and prior year provision estimates, yielding a combined increase of 5% to the effective tax rate.
Excluding the gain on sale of the Playtex gloves business, net tax expense from the Tax Act and costs related to restructuring charges, the adjusted effective tax rate was 34.1% and 26.3% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts.
Wet Shave net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased 4.0%, inclusive of a 2.4% increase due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $19.7, or 6.4%, as a result of lower volumes.
The volume decline in North America Men's systems reflects the impact of distribution losses in the current quarter, compared to strong performance a year ago, when Men's systems organic net sales grew 28%.
International Wet Shave organic net sales declined 2% in the quarter, driven by lower volumes in Europe and unfavorable price mix in Asia.
Wet Shave segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $54.7, down $17.3 or 24.0%, inclusive of the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased $19.0, or 26.4%, driven by lower volumes, unfavorable product mix, higher promotional spending, costs associated with manufacturing footprint efforts, higher commodity costs, and unfavorable transactional currency.
As a result, segment net sales and segment profit tend to be higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 2.6%, inclusive of a 4.0% increase due to the acquisition of Bulldog and a 1.6% increase due to currency movements, offset by a 5.6% decline from the disposition of the Playtex gloves business.
Excluding the impact of the Bulldog acquisition, sale of the Playtex gloves business and currency movements, organic net sales increased $1.5, or 2.6%, driven by growth in North America of nearly 7% from increased volumes from Banana Boat and Bulldog, offset by higher promotional spending.
Segment loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $6.1, a decrease of $6.9 or 862.5%, inclusive of the impact of the acquisition of Bulldog, sale of the Playtex gloves business and currency movements.
Excluding the impact of the Bulldog acquisition and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, organic segment profit decreased $4.6, or 575.0%, driven by increased promotional support to close the sun care season and higher product costs in the current year compared to a year ago, when production volumes were high as aerosol production was first insourced at our Ormond Beach plant.
Feminine Care net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased $6.5, or 7.3%, inclusive of a 0.3% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 7.6%, due to volume declines in tampons and pads related to prior distribution losses, offset in part by growth in Carefree liners.
Feminine Care segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $5.0, a decrease of $3.3, or 39.8%, inclusive of a 2.4% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased $3.5, or 42.2%, due to lower volumes and higher product costs compared to the prior year, when production volumes were higher in advance of the final consolidation of manufacturing into one plant.
All Other net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 1.2%, due to a 1.2% increase from the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales remained flat compared to the prior year quarter as growth in Diaper Genie and Pet Care was offset by declines in infant feeding products.
All Other segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $7.2, an increase of $0.3, or 4.3%, inclusive of a 2.9% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, general corporate expenses were $18.4, or 3.9% of net sales, as compared to $16.4, or 3.4% of net sales, in the prior year quarter.
The increase in corporate expenses compared to the prior year quarter was driven by a loss on the sale of an asset related to our ZBS initiative and executive severance related charges.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.


