fls.txt



item1.txt
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also providing software-as-a-service ("SaaS") enterprise solutions in the area of customer relationship management ("CRM"), front-end and back-end systems, and outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines physical distribution outlets in many Association of Southwest Asian Nations ("ASEAN") countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio of services encompasses dominance in the areas of domestic and international money remittance, foreign exchange ("Forex"), travel, pre-paid gift cards, utility payments, lending, and wealth management in India and other Asian markets.
Restricted Cash - The carrying value of our restricted cash in current assets was $18.2 million and $8.3 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Advertising—Advertising costs amounted to $2.0 million and $2.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $7.6 million and $6.2 million in the nine months ended 2019 and 2018, respectively.
•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3. and determination of the fair value of contingent earn-out liabilities for purchased businesses.
EbixCash revenues are primarily derived from consideration paid by customers to transfer or exchange money.
EbixCash acts as the principal in transactions and reports revenue on a gross basis, as EbixCash controls the service at all times prior to transfer to the customer, is primarily responsible for fulfilling the customer contracts, has the risk of loss, and has the ability to establish transaction prices.
In the majority of EbixCash’s foreign exchange and payment services, EbixCash makes payments to the recipient to satisfy its performance obligation to the customer, and therefore, EbixCash recognizes revenue on foreign exchange and payment services when this performance obligation has been fulfilled.
For all transactions, EbixCash’s customers agree to EbixCash’s terms and conditions, either at the time of initiating a transaction (where the consumer is determined to be the customer for revenue recognition purposes) or upon signing a contract with EbixCash to provide services on the biller’s behalf (where the biller is determined to be the customer for revenue recognition purposes).
EbixCash’s revenues from bill payment services are generated from contracts to process transactions at any time during the duration of the contract.
The transaction price on bill payment services is contractual and determinable.
EbixCash Travel revenue is for a single performance obligation and is recognized at a point in time.
EbixCash’s Travel revenue is also derived from ticket sales, wherein the commissions payable to EbixCash Travel, along with any transaction fees paid by travel providers and travel exchanges, is recognized as revenue after completion of the service.


item2.txt
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
Additionally, the Company leases office space in New Zealand, Australia, Singapore, Dubai, Brazil, Canada, and the United Kingdom for support, operations and sales offices.
The Indian facilities provide software development and other technical and business process outsourcing services.
In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our application service provider "ASP" platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
International revenue accounted for 69.4% and 62.4% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Similarly, for the nine months ending September 30, 2019 and 2018 respectfully, there is $13.1 million, and $2.1 million of Insurance Exchange revenues derived in India that are being reported within the EbixCash Exchange channel only above.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 our total operating revenues increased $18.6 million or 14%, to $147.2 million as compared to $128.6 million during the third quarter of 2018.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the growth in the EbixCash segment as well as the acquisitions in the travel, foreign exchange, and software solutions sectors during the last twelve months offset by reductions in revenues from the insurance consulting business, EbixHealth JV, and e-governance service contracts executed within the Ebix Vayam Limited JV for Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited "BSNL" (a leading public sector undertaking in the telecommunication sector in India).
The 2019 and 2018 pro forma financial information assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2018, whereas the Company's reported condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended September 30, 2019 only includes the revenues from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired or consolidated by Ebix, being February 2018 for Transcorp, April 2018 for Centrum, April 2018 for Smartclass, July 2018 for Indus, July 2018 for Mercury, July 2018 for Leisure, August 2018 for Miles, October 2018 for Routier, October 2018 for Business Travels, October 2018 for Aha Taxis, December 2018 for Pearl, Weizmann, January 2019 for Zillious, January 2019 for Essel and August 2019 for Wallstreet Canada.
Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 actual and proforma include $198 thousand and $2.6 million revenue, respectively, from the e-governance business.
Costs of services provided, which includes costs associated with customer support, consulting, implementation, and training services, increased $12.2 million or 28%, to $55.2 million in the third quarter of 2019 as compared to $43.0 million in the third quarter of 2018.


item3.txt
However, the Company has operations in Australia, India (specifically EbixCash), New Zealand, United Kingdom, Canada, Brazil, Philippines, Indonesia, and United Arab Emirates where we conduct transactions in the local currencies of each of these locations.


item4.txt



part2.txt



