fls.txt



item1.txt
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries As of December 31, 2018 there were 200,000 shares totaling $8.8 million of share repurchases that were not settled until January 2019.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Restricted Cash- The carrying value of our restricted cash was $29.7 million and $4.0 million at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Additionally in connection with a 2016 acquisition, there is upfront cash consideration and possible future contingent earn-out payments held in an escrow account contingent upon the acquired business achieving the minimum specified annual net revenue thresholds, which if not achieved would result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
A financial instrument's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3.
For arrangements that include multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates consideration based on their relative fair values.These types of arrangements include obligations pertaining to software licenses, system set-up, and professional services associated with product customization or modification.
This portion is recognized as the related performance obligation is fulfilled (generally less than one year).
The remaining portion of the contract liabilities balance consists primarily of customer-specific customizations that are not distinct from related performance obligations that transfer over time.
Accounts Receivable and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts—Reported accounts receivable include $131.2 million of trade receivables stated at invoice billed amounts and $31.0 million of unbilled receivables (net of the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts receivable in the amount of $6.6 million).
The unbilled receivables pertain to certain projects for which the timing of billing is tied to contractual milestones.
Approximately $8.0 million of contract liabilities is included in billed accounts receivable at March 31, 2019.
During the three months ending March 31, 2019 and 2018 the Company recognized and recorded bad debt expense in the amount of $134 thousand and $1.0 million, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, $484 thousand and $40 thousand, respectively, of accounts receivable, which had been specifically reserved for in prior periods, were written off.
In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance, goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurred or circumstances change that would indicate that fair value of a reporting unit decreased below its carrying value.
The aforementioned two-step quantitative testing process involves comparing the reporting unit carrying values to their respective fair values; we determine fair value of our reporting units by applying the discounted cash flow method using the present value of future estimated net cash flows.
However, if a reporting unit’s fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeded its implied value.


item2.txt
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
The Indian facilities provide software development and other technical and business process outsourcing services.
International revenue accounted for 67.8% and 53.9% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 our total operating revenues increased $34.7 million or 32%, to $142.9 million as compared to $108.2 million during the first quarter of 2018.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the growth in the EbixCash segment as well as the acquisitions made by Ebix in the last twelve months.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
During the first three months of 2019, the United States' revenues decreased $3.8 million primarily due to a combination of decreased professional services and a decrease of third party administrator services.
Latin America's revenues decreased by $1.4 million primarily due to decreased professional services combined with a $646 thousand decrease due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Australia's revenues decreased by $862 thousand primarily due to a changes in foreign currency exchange rates.


item3.txt
However, the Company has operations in Australia, India (specifically EbixCash), New Zealand, Great Britain, Canada, Brazil, Singapore, Philippines, Indonesia, and United Arab Emirates where we conduct transactions in the local currencies of each of these locations.


item4.txt



part2.txt
On February 10, 2015, defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the Second Amended Complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part in a Memorandum Opinion and Order issued on January 15, 2016.


