Beginning in January 2019, CTS adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" under the optional transition method, which requires, if necessary, a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The lease liability is based on the present value of minimum lease payments discounted using our secured incremental borrowing rate at the date of adoption. Existing deferred rent liabilities, resulting from our historical practice of using the straight line method for recognizing lease expense, were reclassified upon adoption to reduce the measurement of the lease assets. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which among other things, allows us to carry forward the historical accounting relating to lease identification and classification for existing leases at adoption. Our leases are classified as operating leases and expense is recorded in a manner similar to historical accounting guidance. We have also elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components for the majority of our leases and the election to keep leases with an initial term of 12 months or less off of the balance sheet. Upon adoption we recorded a lease liability of $24,792 and a right of use asset of $22,066. No adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings was required.
To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing the most likely amount method based on an analysis of historical experience and current facts and circumstances, which requires significant judgment. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. 
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, we recognized revenues of $125 and $231, respectively, for amounts that were included in contract liabilities at the beginning of the period. 
 (1) Expected return on plan assets is net of expected investment expenses and certain administrative expenses.
Costs associated with exit and restructuring activities are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings as a separate component of Operating earnings. 
In June 2016, we announced plans to restructure operations by phasing out production at our Elkhart facility and transitioning it into a research and development center supporting our global operations ("June 2016 Plan"). Additional organizational changes were also implemented in various other locations. During the third quarter of 2017, we revised the June 2016 Plan. The amendment added an additional $1,100 in planned costs related to the relocation of our corporate headquarters in Lisle, IL and our plant in Bolingbrook, IL, both of which have now been consolidated into a single facility. The total restructuring liability under the June 2016 Plan was $333 at September 30, 2019, and $668 at December 31, 2018. Additional costs related to production line movements, equipment charges, and other costs will be expensed as incurred. 
Beginning in Q3 2019, we incurred restructuring charges of $1,671 for exit and disposal activities at three facilities, of which $800 was related to a lease termination charge resulting from our acquisition of Quality Thermistor, Inc. (see Note 19) and $871 was related to workforce and building relocation costs at two foreign facilities. The total remaining restructuring liability associated with these actions was $752 at September 30, 2019.
Certain processes in the manufacture of our current and past products create by-products classified as hazardous waste. We have been notified by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, state environmental agencies, and in some cases, groups of potentially responsible parties, that we may be potentially liable for environmental contamination at several sites currently and formerly owned or operated by us. Two of those sites, Asheville, North Carolina and Mountain View, California, are designated National Priorities List sites under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund program. We accrue a liability for probable remediation activities, claims and proceedings against us with respect to environmental matters if the amount can be reasonably estimated, and provide disclosures including the nature of a loss whenever it is probable or reasonably possible that a potentially material loss may have occurred but cannot be estimated. We record contingent loss accruals on an undiscounted basis. 
On February 12, 2019, we entered into an amended and restated five-year Credit Agreement with a group of banks (the "Credit Agreement") to extend the term of the facility. The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility of $300,000, which may be increased by $150,000 at the request of the Company, subject to the administrative agent's approval. This new unsecured credit facility replaces the prior $300,000 unsecured credit facility, which would have expired August 10, 2020. Borrowings of $50,000 under the prior credit agreement were refinanced into the Credit Agreement. The prior agreement was terminated as of February 12, 2019.
We have debt issuance costs related to our long-term debt that are being amortized using the straight-line method over the life of the debt. Amortization expense was approximately $42 and $46 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and approximately $121 and $139 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. These costs are included in interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 
The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to credit risk, which relates to the risk of nonperformance by a counterparty to the derivative contracts. We manage our credit risk by entering into derivative contracts with only highly rated financial institutions and by using netting agreements. 
We use forward contracts to mitigate currency risk related to a portion of our forecasted foreign currency revenues and costs. The currency forward contracts are designed as cash flow hedges and are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. 
We continue to monitor the Company’s overall currency exposure and may elect to add cash flow hedges in the future. At September 30, 2019, we had a net unrealized gain of $452 in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, of which $432 is expected to be reclassified to income within the next 12 months. At September 30, 2018 we had a net unrealized gain of $867 in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was $11,738 at September 30, 2019.
Unrealized gains (losses) on hedges relate to interest rate swaps to convert a portion of our revolving credit facility's outstanding balance from a variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge our exposure to changes in exchange rates affecting certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transactions occur, at which time amounts are reclassified into earnings. Further information related to our derivative financial instruments is included in Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 16 – Fair Value Measurements.
Unrealized gains (losses) on pension obligations are deferred from income statement recognition until the gains or losses are realized. Amounts reclassified to income from AOCI are included in net periodic pension income (expense). Further information related to our pension obligations is included in Note 6 – Retirement Plans.
Cumulative translation adjustments relate to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar. We are required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates. This combination of rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income. 
Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency and the currency in which a transaction is denominated are foreign exchange transaction gains or losses. Transaction losses for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $2,473 and $2,828, respectively and transaction losses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $1,740 and $2,658, respectively, which have been included in other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Certain potentially dilutive restricted stock units are excluded from diluted earning per share because they are anti-dilutive. The number of awards that were anti-dilutive for the nine month periods ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018 were 20,273 and 1,538, respectively. There were no outstanding anti-dilutive awards impacting the three month periods ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
We recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was, in substance, multiple awards.
During 2015 and 2016, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”) granted a total of 350,000 performance-based stock option awards (“Performance-Based Option Awards”) for certain employees under the 2014 Plan, of which 250,000 remain outstanding after considering forfeitures. The Performance-Based Option Awards have an exercise price of $18.37, a term of five years, and generally will become exercisable (provided the optionee remains employed by the Company or an affiliate) upon our attainment of at least $600,000 in revenues during any of our trailing four quarterly periods (as determined by the Committee) during the term. We have not recognized any expense on these Performance-Based Option Awards for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, since the revenue target was not deemed likely to be attained based on our current forecast.
The following table summarizes each grant of performance awards outstanding at September 30, 2019. 
Cash-Settled RSUs entitle the holder to receive the cash equivalent of one share of common stock for each unit when the unit vests. These RSUs are issued to key employees residing in foreign locations as direct compensation. Generally, these RSUs vest over a three-year period. Cash-Settled RSUs are classified as liabilities and are remeasured at each reporting date until settled. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 we had 17,271 and 17,248 cash-settled RSUs outstanding, respectively. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, liabilities of $263 and $300, respectively, were included in Accrued liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We use interest rate swaps to convert a portion of our Revolving Credit Facility’s outstanding balance from a variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the effect of foreign currency changes on certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 
The fair value of our interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges were measured using standard valuation models using market-based observable inputs over the contractual terms, including forward yield curves, among others. There is a readily determinable market for these derivative instruments, but that market is not active and therefore they are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Our long-term debt consists of the Revolving Credit Facility which is recorded at its carrying value. There is a readily determinable market for our long-term debt and it is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as the market is not deemed to be active. The fair value of long-term debt approximates carrying value and was determined by valuing a similar hypothetical coupon bond and attributing that value to our long-term debt under the Revolving Credit Facility.
We lease certain land, buildings and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases used in our operations. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term. Operating lease liabilities represent the present value of lease payments over the lease term, discounted using an estimate of our secured incremental borrowing rate because none of our leases contain a rate implicit in the lease arrangement. 
The operating lease assets and liabilities are adjusted to include the impact of any lease incentives and non-lease components. We have elected not to separate lease and non-lease components, which include taxes and common area maintenance in some of our leases. Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in lease payments using the prevailing index or rate in effect at lease commencement. 
Options to extend or terminate a lease are included in the lease term when it is reasonably likely that we will exercise that option. We have elected not to record leases with an initial term of 12 months or less on the balance sheet and instead recognize those lease payments on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease or contains a lease at its inception, which normally does not require significant estimates or judgments. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants and we currently have no material sublease agreements.
On July 31, 2019, we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of Quality Thermistor, Inc. (QTI) for $75 million plus a contingent earn out of up to $5 million based on sales performance objectives. The purchase price includes adjustments for debt assumed and changes in working capital. QTI, doing business as QTI Sensing Solutions, is a leading designer and manufacturer of high-quality temperature sensors serving original equipment manufacturers with mission-critical applications in the industrial, aerospace, defense and medical markets. This acquisition provides us with a new core temperature sensing technology that expands our sensing product portfolio, while increasing our presence in the industrial and medical markets. 
The purchase price of $75,755 has been allocated to the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired as of July 31, 2019. The allocation of purchase price is preliminary pending the completion of the appraisals of property, plant, and equipment, the valuation of intangible assets, and finalization of management's estimates. The final purchase price allocation may result in a materially different allocation than that recorded as of September 30, 2019.
Goodwill represents value the Company expects to be created by combining the operations of the acquired business with the Company's operations, including the expansion of customer relationships within our existing business, access to new customers, and potential cost savings and synergies. Goodwill related to the acquisition is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Contingent consideration is payable in cash upon the achievement of a revenue performance target for the year ending December 31, 2019. The Company recorded $2,167 as the acquisition date fair value of the contingent consideration based on an estimate of the probability of achieving the performance target using the most recent revenue forecast. This amount is reflected as an addition to purchase price and will be finalized once the full year 2019 results are known. 
In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2018-14, "Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General." This ASU modifies the disclosure requirements for defined benefit and other postretirement plans. This ASU eliminates certain disclosures associated with accumulated other comprehensive income, plan assets, related parties, and the effects of interest rate basis point changes on assumed health care costs; while other disclosures have been added to address significant gains and losses related to changes in benefit obligations. This ASU also clarifies disclosure requirements for projected benefit and accumulated benefit obligations. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020 and for interim periods therein with early adoption permitted. Adoption on a retrospective basis for all periods presented is required. This ASU will impact our financial statement disclosures but will not have an impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory". This ASU is meant to improve the accounting for the income tax effect of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Currently, U.S. GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers until the asset is sold to a third party. This ASU will now require companies to recognize the income tax effect of an intra-entity asset transfer (other than inventory) when the transaction occurs. This ASU is effective for public companies, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those annual reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted and is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which amends the current accounting guidance and requires the measurement of all expected losses based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. For trade receivables, loans, and other financial instruments, we will be required to use a forward-looking expected loss model rather than the incurred loss model for recognizing credit losses which reflects losses that are probable. The standard will become effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. Application of the amendments is through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date. We plan to adopt this standard on the effective date and are currently evaluating the impact of this new standard on our financial statements.
Item 1A.  Risk Factors
