Item 1. Financial Statements
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity - Unaudited
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity - Unaudited (continued)
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
Changes in Accounting Principles
Beginning in January 2019, CTS adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" under the optional transition method, which requires, if necessary, a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The lease liability is based on the present value of minimum lease payments discounted using our secured incremental borrowing rate at the date of adoption. Existing deferred rent liabilities, resulting from our historical practice of using the straight line method for recognizing lease expense, were reclassified upon adoption to reduce the measurement of the lease assets. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which among other things, allows us to carry forward the historical accounting relating to lease identification and classification for existing leases at adoption. Our leases are classified as operating leases and expense is recorded in a manner similar to historical accounting guidance. We have also elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components for the majority of our leases and the election to keep leases with an initial term of 12 months or less off of the balance sheet. Upon adoption we recorded a lease liability of $24,792 and a right of use asset of $22,066. No adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings was required.
Subsequent Events
NOTE 2 – Revenue Recognition
•Identify the contract(s) with a customer
•Identify the performance obligations
•Allocate the transaction price
•Recognize revenue when the performance obligations are met
Contract Assets and Liabilities
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we recognized revenues of $37 and $106, respectively, for amounts that were included in contract liabilities at the beginning of the period. 
Disaggregated Revenue
NOTE 4 – Inventories 
NOTE 6 – Retirement Plans
Pension Plans
 (1) Expected return on plan assets is net of expected investment expenses and certain administrative expenses.
Other Post-retirement Benefit Plan
NOTE 7 – Other Intangible Assets
NOTE 8 – Costs Associated with Exit and Restructuring Activities
In June 2016, we announced plans to restructure operations by phasing out production at our Elkhart facility and transitioning it into a research and development center supporting our global operations ("June 2016 Plan"). Additional organizational changes were also implemented in various other locations. During the third quarter of 2017, we revised the June 2016 Plan. The amendment added an additional $1,100 in planned costs related to the relocation of our corporate headquarters in Lisle, IL and our plant in Bolingbrook, IL, both of which have now been consolidated into a single facility. The total restructuring liability related to severance and other one-time benefit arrangements under the June 2016 Plan was $501 at June 30, 2019, and $668 at December 31, 2018. Additional costs related to production line movements, equipment charges, and other costs will be expensed as incurred. 
NOTE 9 – Accrued Liabilities
NOTE 10 – Commitments and Contingencies
NOTE 11 - Debt
On February 12, 2019, we entered into an amended and restated five-year Credit Agreement with a group of banks (the "Credit Agreement") to extend the term of the facility. The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility of $300,000, which may be increased by $150,000 at the request of the Company, subject to the administrative agent's approval. This new unsecured credit facility replaces the prior $300,000 unsecured credit facility, which would have expired August 10, 2020. Borrowings of $50,000 under the prior credit agreement were refinanced into the Credit Agreement. The prior agreement was terminated as of February 12, 2019.
The Revolving Credit Facility includes a swing line sublimit of $15,000 and a letter of credit sublimit of $10,000. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus the applicable margin for base rate loans or London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus the applicable margin for LIBOR loans. We also pay a quarterly commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility. The commitment fee ranges from 0.20% to 0.30% based on the our total leverage ratio. 
We have debt issuance costs related to our long-term debt that are being amortized using the straight-line method over the life of the debt. Amortization expense was approximately $41 and $46 for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively and approximately $77 and $93 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. These costs are included in interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 
The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to credit risk, which relates to the risk of nonperformance by a counterparty to the derivative contracts. We manage our credit risk by entering into derivative contracts with only highly rated financial institutions and by using netting agreements. 
Foreign Currency Hedges
We use forward contracts to mitigate currency risk related to a portion of our forecasted foreign currency revenues and costs. The currency forward contracts are designed as cash flow hedges and are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. 
Interest Rate Swaps
We use interest rate swaps to convert our revolving credit facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate. As of June 30, 2019, we have agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt through August 2020. The difference to be paid or received under the terms of the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense when settled.
The Company has elected to net its foreign currency derivative assets and liabilities in the balance sheet in accordance with ASC 210-20 (Balance Sheet, Offsetting). On a gross basis, there were foreign currency derivative assets of $718 and foreign currency derivative liabilities of $0.
NOTE 13 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income
Unrealized gains (losses) on hedges relate to interest rate swaps to convert our revolving credit facility's variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge our exposure to changes in exchange rates affecting certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transactions occur, at which time amounts are reclassified into earnings. Further information related to our derivative financial instruments is included in Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 16 – Fair Value Measurements.
Unrealized gains (losses) on pension obligations are deferred from income statement recognition until the gains or losses are realized. Amounts reclassified to income from AOCI are included in net periodic pension income (expense). Further information related to our pension obligations is included in Note 6 – Retirement Plans.
Cumulative translation adjustments relate to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar. We are required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates. This combination of rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income. 
Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency and the currency in which a transaction is denominated are foreign exchange transaction gains or losses. Transaction losses for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $829 and $355, respectively and transaction losses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were $2,194 and $918, respectively, which have been included in other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
On February 7, 2019, the Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program with a maximum dollar limit of $25,000 in stock repurchases, which replaced the previous program. During the six months ended June 30, 2019, 179,966 shares of common stock were repurchased for approximately $5,002, of which $567 was repurchased under the previous program and $4,435 was repurchased under the most recent board-authorized share repurchase plan. Approximately $20,565 is available for future purchases.
Certain potentially dilutive restricted stock units are excluded from diluted earning per share because they are anti-dilutive. The number of awards that were anti-dilutive for the six month periods ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018 were 108,894 and 72,658, respectively. There were no outstanding anti-dilutive awards impacting the three month periods ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018.
We recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was, in substance, multiple awards.
Performance-Based Stock Options
During 2015 and 2016, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”) granted a total of 350,000 performance-based stock option awards (“Performance-Based Option Awards”) for certain employees under the 2014 Plan, of which 250,000 remain outstanding after considering forfeitures. The Performance-Based Option Awards have an exercise price of $18.37, a term of five years, and generally will become exercisable (provided the optionee remains employed by the Company or an affiliate) upon our attainment of at least $600,000 in revenues during any of our trailing four quarterly periods (as determined by the Committee) during the term. We have not recognized any expense on these Performance-Based Option Awards for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, since the revenue target was not deemed likely to be attained based on our current forecast.
Service-Based Restricted Stock Units
Performance and Market-Based Restricted Stock Units
The following table summarizes each grant of performance awards outstanding at June 30, 2019. 
Cash-Settled Restricted Stock Units
Cash-Settled RSUs entitle the holder to receive the cash equivalent of one share of common stock for each unit when the unit vests. These RSUs are issued to key employees residing in foreign locations as direct compensation. Generally, these RSUs vest over a three-year period. Cash-Settled RSUs are classified as liabilities and are remeasured at each reporting date until settled. At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 we had 17,468 and 17,248 cash-settled RSUs outstanding, respectively. At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, liabilities of $211 and $300, respectively were included in Accrued liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The fair value of our interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges were measured using standard valuation models using market-based observable inputs over the contractual terms, including forward yield curves, among others. There is a readily determinable market for these derivative instruments, but that market is not active and therefore they are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Our long-term debt consists of the Revolving Credit Facility which is recorded at its carrying value. There is a readily determinable market for our long-term debt and it is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as the market is not deemed to be active. The fair value of long-term debt approximates carrying value and was determined by valuing a similar hypothetical coupon bond and attributing that value to our long-term debt under the Revolving Credit Facility.
We lease certain land, buildings and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases used in our operations. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term. Operating lease liabilities represent the present value of lease payments over the lease term, discounted using an estimate of our secured incremental borrowing rate because none of our leases contain a rate implicit in the lease arrangement. 
The operating lease assets and liabilities are adjusted to include the impact of any lease incentives and non-lease components. We have elected not to separate lease and non-lease components, which include taxes and common area maintenance in some of our leases. Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in lease payments using the prevailing index or rate in effect at lease commencement. 
Options to extend or terminate a lease are included in the lease term when it is reasonably likely that we will exercise that option. We have elected not to record leases with an initial term of 12 months or less on the balance sheet and instead recognize those lease payments on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
ASU 2016-16 "Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory"
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory". This ASU is meant to improve the accounting for the income tax effect of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Currently, U.S. GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers until the asset is sold to a third party. This ASU will now require companies to recognize the income tax effect of an intra-entity asset transfer (other than inventory) when the transaction occurs. This ASU is effective for public companies, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those annual reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted and is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which amends the current accounting guidance and requires the measurement of all expected losses based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. For trade receivables, loans, and other financial instruments, we will be required to use a forward-looking expected loss model rather than the incurred loss model for recognizing credit losses which reflects losses that are probable. The standard will become effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. Application of the amendments is through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date. We plan to adopt this standard on the effective date and are currently evaluating the impact of this new standard on our financial statements.
Item 1.  Legal Proceedings
Item 1A.  Risk Factors
