Item 1. Financial Statements
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
Change in Accounting Principle
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)". The guidance in this ASU affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of nonfinancial assets unless those contracts are within the scope of other standards (for example, insurance contracts or lease contracts). This guidance requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Beginning in January 2018, CTS adopted the provisions of Topic 606 under the modified retrospective method, which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings on the date of adoption. This approach was applied to contracts not completed as of December 31, 2017. At date of adoption, there was no significant change to our past revenue recognition practices and therefore no adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings was required.
Subsequent Events
NOTE 2 – Revenue Recognition
•Identify the contract(s) with a customer
•Identify the performance obligations
•Determine the transaction price
•Allocate the transaction price
•Recognize revenue when the performance obligations are met
Contract Assets and Liabilities
During the three months period ended March 31, 2018, we recognized revenues of $131 that were included in contract liabilities at the beginning of the period.
The increase in contract liabilities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 is primarily due to net increases in estimated future discounts and price concessions, offset by net settlements of products sold with rights of return.
Disaggregated Revenue
NOTE 4 – Inventories 
NOTE 6 – Retirement Plans
Pension Plans
Other Post-retirement Benefit Plan
NOTE 7 – Other Intangible Assets
NOTE 8 – Costs Associated with Exit and Restructuring Activities
In June 2016, we announced plans to restructure operations by phasing out production at our Elkhart facility by the end of 2018 and transitioning it into a research and development center supporting our global operations ("June 2016 Plan"). Additional organizational changes will also occur in various other locations. During the third quarter of 2017, we revised the June 2016 Plan. The amendment added an additional $1,100 in planned costs related to the relocation of our corporate headquarters in Lisle, IL and our plant in Bolingbrook, IL, both of which will be consolidated into a single facility. The amendment does not impact any additional employees. The total cost of the plan is expected to be approximately $13,400 and will impact approximately 230 employees. The total restructuring liability related to severance and other one-time benefit arrangements under the June 2016 Plan was $1,279 at March 31, 2018, and $1,460 at December 31, 2017. Additional costs related to line movements, equipment charges, and other costs will be expensed as incurred. 
NOTE 9 – Accrued Liabilities
NOTE 11 - Debt
On August 10, 2015, we entered into a new five-year credit agreement (“Revolving Credit Facility”) with a group of banks in order to support our financing needs. The Revolving Credit Facility originally provided for a credit line of $200,000. On May 23, 2016, we requested and received a $100,000 increase in the aggregate revolving credit commitments under the existing credit agreement, which increased the credit line from $200,000 to $300,000. 
The Revolving Credit Facility includes a swing line sublimit of $15,000 and a letter of credit sublimit of $10,000. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus the applicable margin for base rate loans or LIBOR plus the applicable margin for LIBOR loans. We also pay a quarterly commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility. The commitment fee ranges from 0.20% to 0.40% based on the our total leverage ratio. 
The Revolving Credit Facility requires, among other things, that we comply with a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Failure to comply with these covenants could reduce the borrowing availability under the Revolving 
The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to credit risk, which relates to the risk of nonperformance by a counterparty to the derivative contracts. We manage our credit risk by entering into derivative contracts with only highly rated financial institutions and by using netting agreements. 
Foreign Currency Hedges
Interest Rate Swaps
We use interest rate swaps to convert the revolving credit facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate. In the second quarter of 2012, CTS entered into four separate interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017. In the third quarter of 2012, we entered into four additional interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $25,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017. In the third quarter of 2016, we entered into three additional interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods August 2017 to August 2020. The difference to be paid or received under the terms of the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense when settled.
The Company has elected to net its foreign currency derivative assets and liabilities in the balance sheet in accordance with ASC 210-20 (Balance Sheet, Offsetting). On a gross basis, there were foreign currency derivative assets of $351 and foreign currency derivative liabilities of $317.
NOTE 13 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income
Unrealized gains (losses) on hedges relate to interest rate swaps to convert the revolving credit facility's variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge our exposure to changes in exchange rates affecting certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transactions occur, at which time amounts are reclassified into earnings. Further information related to CTS’ derivative financial instruments is included in Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 16 – Fair Value Measurements.
Cumulative translation adjustments relate to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar. We are required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates. This combination of rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustment component of other comprehensive (loss) income. 
NOTE 15 - Stock-Based Compensation
We recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was, in substance, multiple awards.
Stock Options
Performance-Based Stock Options
During 2015 and 2016, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”) granted a total of 350,000 performance-based stock option awards (“Performance-Based Option Awards”) for certain employees under the 2014 Plan, of which 295,000 remain outstanding after considering forfeitures. The Performance-Based Option Awards have an exercise price of $18.37, a term of five years, and generally will become exercisable (provided the optionee remains employed by the Company or an affiliate) upon our attainment of at least $600,000 in revenues during any of our trailing four quarterly periods (as determined by the Committee) during the term. We have not recognized any expense on these Performance-Based Option Awards for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, since the revenue target was not deemed likely to be attained based on our current forecast.
Service-Based Restricted Stock Units
Performance and Market-Based Restricted Stock Units
The following table summarizes each grant of performance awards outstanding at March 31, 2018. 
Cash-Settled Restricted Stock Units
Cash-Settled RSUs entitle the holder to receive the cash equivalent of one share of common stock for each unit when the unit vests. These RSUs are issued to key employees residing in foreign locations as direct compensation. Generally, these RSUs vest over a three-year period. Cash-Settled RSUs are classified as liabilities and are remeasured at each reporting date until settled. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 we had 17,361 and 14,082 cash-settled RSUs outstanding, respectively. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, liabilities of $127 and $241, respectively were included in Accrued liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We use interest rate swaps to convert our Revolving Credit Facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the effect of foreign currency changes on certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 
The fair value of our interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges were measured using standard valuation models using market-based observable inputs over the contractual terms, including forward yield curves, among others. There is a readily determinable market for these derivative instruments, but that market is not active and therefore they are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Our long-term debt consists of the Revolving Credit Facility which is recorded at its carrying value. There is a readily determinable market for our long-term debt and it is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as the market is not deemed to be active. The fair value of long-term debt approximates carrying value and was determined by valuing a similar hypothetical coupon bond and attributing that value to our long-term debt under the Revolving Credit Facility.
ASU 2016-16 "Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory"
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory". This ASU is meant to improve the accounting for the income tax effect of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Currently, US GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers until the asset is sold to a third party. This ASU will now require companies to recognize the income tax effect of an intra-entity asset transfer (other than inventory) when the transaction occurs. This ASU is effective for public companies, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those annual reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted and is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
ASU 2016-15 "Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments"
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, "Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments". This ASU reduces the diversity in reporting of eight specific cash flow issues due to accounting guidance that is unclear or does not exist. The eight issues relate to certain debt activities, business combination activities, insurance settlements and other various activities. We adopted this ASU as of January 1, 2018 and it did not have an impact on our financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)". This amendment created a new Topic under the accounting standards codification to account for the provisions of the ASU. This amendment is meant to provide transparency and to improve comparability between entities. The ASU requires companies to record an asset and liability on the balance sheet for leases that were formerly designated as operating leases as well as leases designated as financing leases. The provisions of the ASU predominately change the recognition of leases for lessees; the provisions do not substantially change the accounting for lessors. This ASU will supersede the provisions of Topic 840 Leases.
The liability recorded for a lease is meant to recognize the lease payments and the asset as a right to use the underlying asset for the lease, including optional periods if it is reasonably certain the option will be exercised. Recording of the liability should be based on the present value of the lease payments. If a lease term is less than twelve months, a company is allowed to elect not to record the asset and liability. Expense related to these leases are to be amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected term of the lease.
Additionally, the provisions of this ASU provide additional guidance on separating lease terms from maintenance and other type of provisions that provide a good or service, accounting for sale-leaseback provisions, and leveraged leases. 
Reporting in the cash flow statement remains virtually unchanged. Additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures are required.
These updates are required to be applied under a modified retrospective approach from the beginning of the earliest period presented in our financial statements upon adoption. The modified approach provides optional practical expedients that may be elected, which will allow companies to continue to account for leases under the previous guidance for leases that commenced prior to the effective date.
The provisions of this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those periods. Early adoption is allowed. We have not yet commenced the process for evaluating the impact of this ASU on our financial statements, and therefore it's impact has not yet been determined.
Item 1.  Legal Proceedings
Item 1A.  Risk Factors
