See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
Beginning in January 2018, CTS adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)" under the modified retrospective method, which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings on the date of adoption. This approach was applied to contracts not completed as of December 31, 2017. At date of adoption, there was no significant change to our past revenue recognition practices and therefore no adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings was required.
To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing the most likely amount method based on an analysis of historical experience and current facts and circumstances, which requires significant judgment. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. 
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recognized a decrease of revenues of $18 and an increase of $68, respectively, that were included in contract liabilities at the beginning of the period. 
The increase in contract liabilities as of September 30, 2018 is primarily due to net increases in estimated future discounts and price concessions, offset by net settlements of products sold with rights of return.
 (1) Expected return on plan assets is net of expected investment expenses and certain administrative expenses.
Costs associated with exit and restructuring activities are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings as a separate component of Operating earnings. 
In June 2016, we announced plans to restructure operations by phasing out production at our Elkhart facility by the end of 2018 and transitioning it into a research and development center supporting our global operations ("June 2016 Plan"). Additional organizational changes were also implemented in various other locations. During the third quarter of 2017, we revised the June 2016 Plan. The amendment added an additional $1,100 in planned costs related to the relocation of our corporate headquarters in Lisle, IL and our plant in Bolingbrook, IL, both of which will be consolidated into a single facility. The total cost of the plan is expected to be approximately $13,400. The total restructuring liability related to severance and other one-time benefit arrangements under the June 2016 Plan was $1,044 at September 30, 2018, and $1,460 at December 31, 2017. Additional costs related to production line movements, equipment charges, and other costs will be expensed as incurred. 
Certain processes in the manufacture of our current and past products create by-products classified as hazardous waste. We have been notified by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, state environmental agencies, and in some cases, groups of potentially responsible parties, that we may be potentially liable for environmental contamination at several sites currently and formerly owned or operated by us. Some sites, such as Asheville, North Carolina and Mountain View, California, are designated National Priorities List sites under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund program. We reserve for probable remediation activities and for claims and proceedings against us with respect to other environmental matters. We record reserves on an undiscounted basis. In the opinion of management, based upon presently available information relating to such matters, adequate provision for probable and estimable costs have been recorded. We do not have any known environmental obligations where a loss is probable or reasonably possible of occurring for which we do not have a reserve, nor do we have any amounts for which we have not reserved because the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably estimated. Due to the inherent nature of environmental obligations, we cannot provide assurance that our ultimate environmental liability will not materially exceed the amount of its current reserve. Our reserve and disclosures will be adjusted accordingly if additional information becomes available in the future.
On August 10, 2015, we entered into a five-year credit agreement (“Revolving Credit Facility”) with a group of banks in order to support our financing needs. The Revolving Credit Facility originally provided for a credit line of $200,000. On May 23, 2016, we requested and received a $100,000 increase in the aggregate revolving credit commitments under the existing credit agreement, which increased the credit line from $200,000 to $300,000. 
We have debt issuance costs related to our long-term debt that are being amortized using the straight-line method over the life of the debt. These costs are included in interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Amortization expense was approximately $46 for both the three months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, and approximately $139 for both the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. 
The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to credit risk, which relates to the risk of nonperformance by a counterparty to the derivative contracts. We manage our credit risk by entering into derivative contracts with only highly rated financial institutions and by using netting agreements. 
that have increased the risk that the counterparty will default. No recognition of ineffectiveness was recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. 
In January of 2016, we began using forward contracts to mitigate currency risk related to a portion of our forecasted foreign currency revenues and costs. The currency forward contracts are designed as cash flow hedges and are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. 
We continue to monitor the Company’s overall currency exposure and may elect to add cash flow hedges in the future. At September 30, 2018, we had a net unrealized gain of $867 in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, of which $644 is expected to be reclassified to income within the next 12 months. At September 30, 2017 we had a net unrealized gain of $350 in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was $19.2 million at September 30, 2018.
Unrealized gains (losses) on hedges relate to interest rate swaps to convert the revolving credit facility's variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge our exposure to changes in exchange rates affecting certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transactions occur, at which time amounts are reclassified into earnings. Further information related to our derivative financial instruments is included in Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 16 – Fair Value Measurements.
Cumulative translation adjustments relate to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar. We are required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates. This combination of rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income. 
Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency and the currency in which a transaction is denominated are foreign exchange transaction gains or losses. Transaction losses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $1,740 and $2,658, respectively and transaction gains for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 were $960 and $2,517, respectively, which have been included in other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
No common stock repurchases were made during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Through September 30, 2018, we had purchased an aggregate of $7,446 under a board-authorized share repurchase plan allowing for up to $25,000 in stock repurchases. Approximately $17,554 is available for future purchases.
Certain potentially dilutive restricted stock units are excluded from diluted earning per share because they are anti-dilutive. The number of awards that were anti-dilutive at September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 were 1,538 and 10,094, respectively.
We recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was, in substance, multiple awards.
We have no stock options exercisable or outstanding as of September 30, 2018, other than the performance-based stock options described below. 
During 2015 and 2016, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”) granted a total of 350,000 performance-based stock option awards (“Performance-Based Option Awards”) for certain employees under the 2014 Plan, of which 285,000 remain outstanding after considering forfeitures. The Performance-Based Option Awards have an exercise price of $18.37, a term of five years, and generally will become exercisable (provided the optionee remains employed by the Company or an affiliate) upon our attainment of at least $600,000 in revenues during any of our trailing four quarterly periods (as determined by the Committee) during the term. We have not recognized any expense on these Performance-Based Option Awards 
for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, since the revenue target was not deemed likely to be attained based on our current forecast.
The following table summarizes each grant of performance awards outstanding at September 30, 2018. 
Cash-Settled RSUs entitle the holder to receive the cash equivalent of one share of common stock for each unit when the unit vests. These RSUs are issued to key employees residing in foreign locations as direct compensation. Generally, these RSUs vest over a three-year period. Cash-Settled RSUs are classified as liabilities and are remeasured at each reporting date until settled. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 we had 17,248 and 14,082 cash-settled RSUs outstanding, respectively. 
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, liabilities of $321 and $241, respectively were included in Accrued liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We use interest rate swaps to convert our Revolving Credit Facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the effect of foreign currency changes on certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 
The fair value of our interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges were measured using standard valuation models using market-based observable inputs over the contractual terms, including forward yield curves, among others. There is a readily determinable market for these derivative instruments, but that market is not active and therefore they are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Our long-term debt consists of the Revolving Credit Facility which is recorded at its carrying value. There is a readily determinable market for our long-term debt and it is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as the market is not deemed to be active. The fair value of long-term debt approximates carrying value and was determined by valuing a similar hypothetical coupon bond and attributing that value to our long-term debt under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Our effective income tax rate was 29.7% and 30.0% in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared with the same period in 2017, was primarily attributed to the previously mentioned statutory tax rate reduction resulting from the Tax Act. The tax rate in the first nine months of 2018 was higher than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to state taxes, foreign withholding taxes including the impact of the one-time cash distribution from Taiwan, higher non-deductible currency losses, and foreign earnings taxed at higher rates. The tax rate in the first nine months of 2017 was lower than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to tax benefits recorded upon vesting of restricted stock units, a release of valuation allowances recorded against realizable foreign NOLs, and favorable tax rates on foreign earnings, offset by the impact of state taxes, tax expense for withholding taxes on the anticipated distribution of earnings in China, and other various permanent items.
The purchase price of $19,121, net of cash acquired of $199, has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date based on their fair values. 
Goodwill recorded in connection with this acquisition represents the value we expect to be created by combining the operations of the acquired business with our existing operations, including the expansion into markets within our existing business, access to new customers, and potential cost savings and synergies. Goodwill related to this acquisition is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 
In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2018-14, "Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General." This ASU modifies the disclosure requirements for defined benefit and other postretirement plans. This ASU eliminates certain disclosures associated with accumulated other comprehensive income, plan assets, related parties, and the effects of interest rate basis point changes on assumed health care costs; while other disclosures have been added to address significant gains and losses related to changes in benefit obligations. This ASU also clarifies disclosure requirements for projected benefit and accumulated benefit obligations. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020 and for interim periods therein with early adoption permitted. Adoption on a retrospective basis for all periods presented is required. This ASU will impact our financial statement disclosures but will not have an impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory". This ASU is meant to improve the accounting for the income tax effect of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Currently, U.S. GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers until the asset is sold to a third party. This ASU will now require companies to recognize the income tax effect of an intra-entity asset transfer (other than inventory) when the transaction occurs. This ASU is effective for public companies, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those annual reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted and is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, "Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments". This ASU reduces the diversity in reporting of eight specific cash flow issues due to accounting guidance that is unclear or does not exist. The eight issues relate to certain debt activities, business combination activities, insurance settlements and other various activities. We adopted this ASU as of January 1, 2018 and it did not have an impact on our financial statements.
The liability recorded for a lease is meant to recognize the lease payments and the asset as a right to use the underlying asset for the lease, including optional periods if it is reasonably certain the option will be exercised. Recording of the liability should be based on the present value of the lease payments. If a lease term is less than twelve months, a company is allowed to elect not to record the asset and liability. Expense related to these leases are to be amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected term of the lease.
Reporting in the cash flow statement remains virtually unchanged. Additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures are required.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-11 "Leases (Topic 842) Targeted Improvements. This amendment allows companies to elect to record a cumulative effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings on the date of adoption. We expect to elect the provisions of ASU 2018-11 as of the date of adoption on January 1, 2019. 
The provisions of this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and early adoption is permitted. We have begun the process of reviewing existing agreements and are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our financial statements. We expect certain operating leases to be recognized as assets and liabilities as a result of adopting the standard.
Item 1A.  Risk Factors
