The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment of various factors. The Company considers historical experience, the age of the accounts receivable balance, credit quality of the Company’s customers, current economic conditions and other factors that may affect a customer’s ability to pay. 
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment. Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate. If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value. 
The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment. 
We test our goodwill and trademarks and indefinite-lived assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate these assets may be impaired. These events or circumstances requires significant judgment and could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition and sale or disposition of all or a portion of a division. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. 
RF Industries, Ltd. (together with subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a national manufacturer and marketer of interconnect products and systems, including coaxial and specialty cables and connectors, fiber optic cables and connectors, and electrical and electronic specialty cables and components. Through its manufacturing and production facilities, the Company provides a wide selection of interconnect products and solutions primarily to telecommunications carriers and equipment manufacturers, wireless and network infrastructure carriers and manufacturers and to various original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in several market segments. 
For the three months ended January 31, 2019, most of the Company’s revenues were generated from the Custom Cabling segment from the sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies, and wiring harnesses (which accounted for 69% of the Company’s total sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019). Revenues from the RF Connector segment were generated from the sales of RF connector products and connector cable assemblies and accounted for 31% of the Company’s total sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019. 
 ·As of January 31, 2019, the Company had $28.6 million in current assets and $3.8 million in current liabilities. 
 ·As of January 31, 2019, the Company had no outstanding indebtedness for borrowed funds. 
During the year ended October 31, 2018 (“fiscal year 2018”), the Company received an influx of sales orders from customers that resulted in a sharp increase in sales and backlog from the prior fiscal year ended October 31, 2017. Since the end of fiscal year 2018, the Company has filled most of the October 31, 2018 backlog. However, the Company has maintained a consistent volume of bookings and shipments during the first quarter ended January 31, 2019, resulting in a substantially unchanged backlog of $11 million. Since purchase orders are submitted from customers based on the timing of their requirements, the Company’s ability to predict orders in future periods or trends in future periods is limited. Furthermore, purchase orders may be subject to cancellation from customers, although the Company has not historically experienced material cancellations of purchase orders. As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of January 31, 2019, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the balance of the current fiscal year. 
The Company used cash of $2.3 million during the three months ended January 31, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end. Net income of $0.6 million, with an added increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.1 million from depreciation and amortization and $0.1 million from stock-based compensation expense, was offset by an increase in accounts receivable ($1.4 million) and inventories ($1.1 million) as well as a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payout of prior year bonuses ($1.3 million) and an increase in accounts payable ($0.4 million). In addition, during the three months ended January 31, 2019, the Company received $0.3 million from the exercise of stock options and paid out $0.2 million in dividends. 
The Company does not anticipate needing material additional capital equipment in the next twelve months. In the past, the Company has financed some of its equipment and furnishings requirements through capital leases. No additional capital equipment purchases have been currently identified that would require significant additional leasing or capital expenditures during the next twelve months. Management also believes that based on the Company’s current financial condition, its current backlog of unfulfilled orders and its anticipated future operations, the Company would be able to finance its expansion, if necessary. 
From time to time, the Company may undertake acquisitions of other companies or product lines in order to diversify its product and solutions offerings and customer base. Conversely, the Company may undertake the disposition of a division or product line due to changes in the Company’s business strategy or market conditions. Acquisitions may require the outlay of cash, which may reduce the Company’s liquidity and capital resources while dispositions may increase the Company’s cash position, liquidity and capital resources. On March 8, 2019, the Company announced that it has entered into a binding agreement to purchase all of the assets of C Enterprises, L.P., a California based designer, manufacturer, and distributor of fiber and copper custom cables and cable assembles, and other related products used in the data center, networking, and wireless markets. The total cash outlay related to the purchase of C Enterprises is currently not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s liquidity and capital resources. 
We are currently evaluating the financial impact of the import tariffs that were recently enacted in the U.S. and abroad. While we do not believe that the financial impact on the Company of the enacted tariffs will be material, we recognize that there is uncertainty related to potential costs related to these actions. 
On October 31, 2018, the Company sold all of the shares of Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc (“Comnet”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that was part of the Company’s Custom Cabling segment. Accordingly, the Company’s results of operations for the three months ended January 31, 2018 have been adjusted to remove the results of Comnet; the operating results of Comnet in 2018 are reported in the attached condensed consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations on the statement of operations. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, Comnet had net sales and income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income taxes of $2.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively. The sale of Comnet was consistent with the Company’s business transformation toward a one company culture and operating structure to more efficiently leverage its capabilities across the entire business; Comnet Telecom’s business did not match the Company’s go-to-market strategy since it operated with a different sales model and margin profile than the rest of the Company. 
Net sales of $10.6 million increased by 34%, or $2.7 million, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 (the “fiscal 2019 quarter”) when compared to the three months ended January 31, 2018 (the “fiscal 2018 quarter”). Net sales for the fiscal 2019 quarter at the Company’s Custom Cabling segment increased by $2.1 million, or 38%, when compared to the fiscal 2018 quarter as a result of increased sales of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies and wiring harnesses. The Custom Cabling segment saw an increase in new sales due, in large part, to project work in the OEM and wireless carrier markets in addition to an increase in traditional run rate business. Net sales for the fiscal 2019 quarter at the RF Connector segment increased by $0.6 million, or 24%, to $3.3 million as compared to $2.6 million for the fiscal 2018 quarter. 
Engineering expenses of $0.3 million remained unchanged from the fiscal 2019 to the fiscal 2018 quarter. Engineering expenses represent costs incurred relating to the ongoing development of new products. 
Selling and general expenses increased $0.2 million to $2.0 million compared to $1.8 million in the first quarter last year due to higher compensation expenses as a result of increased sales at the Custom Cabling segment. Despite this increase in expenses, selling and general expenses as a percentage of sales declined to 19% of sales compared to 22% of sales in the first quarter last year, reflecting the Company’s focus on increased operational efficiencies. 
For the fiscal 2019 quarter, income (loss) from continuing operations for the Custom Cabling segment and the RF Connector segment was $0.5 million and $0.3 million, respectively, as compared to $0.5 million and ($0.2) million for the comparable first quarter last year. The income from continuing operations at the Custom Cabling segment remained consistent with the first quarter last year, while the RF Connector segment had an increase in income (loss) from continuing operations primarily due to the increase in sales. 
The provision for income taxes was 21% and 16% of income before income taxes for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in the effective income tax rate from period to period was primarily driven by the elimination of the benefit from the domestic production activities deduction and the one-time benefit recorded in the prior year related to the reduction in the Company’s deferred tax liability due to the change in the federal tax rate, both as a result of the Tax Act. 
For the fiscal 2019 quarter, net income was $0.6 million and fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) was $0.07 per share as compared to a net income of $0.5 million and fully diluted EPS of $0.05 per share for the fiscal 2018 quarter. For the fiscal 2019 quarter, the diluted weighted average shares outstanding was 9,838,154 as compared to 9,099,301 for the fiscal 2018 quarter. 
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
