fls.txt
All forward-looking statements in this Form10-Q are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this Form10-Q, and the Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited financial statements.
In the opinion of management, they include all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
Results of operations reported for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the entire year.
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
Substantially all of the Company’s revenue comes from contracts with customers for subscriptions to its cloud-based products or contracts to perform compliance or other services.
For service contracts that include stand ready obligations, revenue is recognized evenly over the contract period.
For bundled contracts, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
If a standalone selling price is not directly observable, the Company uses the residual method to allocate any remaining costs to that subscription or service.
The Company regularly reviews standalone selling prices and updates these estimates if necessary.
Deferred revenue for the periods presented was primarily related to subscription and service contracts, which are billed upfront, quarterly or annually, however the revenue has not yet been recognized.
Costs to obtain contracts with customers consist primarily of sales commissions.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company has capitalized $20,000 and $18,000 of costs to obtain contracts that are expected to be amortized over more than one year.
We provide an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is based upon a review of outstanding receivables as well as historical collection information.
The allowance is made up of specific reserves, as deemed necessary, on customer account balances, and a reserve based on our historical experience.
Significant estimates include the allowance for doubtful accounts and the valuation of goodwill, intangible assets, deferred tax assets, and stock-based compensation.
At the end of each interim period, we estimate the effective tax rate we expect to be applicable for the full year and this rate is applied to our results for the interim year-to-date period and then adjusted for any discrete period items.
Costs incurred to develop our cloud-based platform products are capitalized when the preliminary project phase is complete, management commits to fund the project and it is probable the project will be completed and used for its intended purposes.
Once the software is substantially complete and ready for its intended use, the software is amortized over its estimated useful life.
No costs were capitalized during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Level 1 – Quoted prices are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the reporting date.
Generally, this includes debt and equity securities that are traded in an active market.


