fls.txt
All forward-looking statements in this Form10-Q are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this Form10-Q, and the Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt



item2.txt
Our corporate offices are located at 500 Perimeter Park Drive, Suite D, Morrisville, North Carolina, 27560.
Issuer Direct is an industry-leading global communications and compliance company focusing on the needs of corporate issuers.
Issuer Direct's principal platform, Platform id.™, empowers users by thoughtfully integrating the most relevant tools, technologies and products, thus eliminating the complexity associated with producing and distributing their business communications and financial information.
We work with a diverse customer base, which not only includes corporate issuers, but also professional firms, such as investor relations and public relations firms, and the accounting and the legal communities.
We also sell products and services to others in the financial services industry, including brokerage firms, banks and mutual funds.
Corporate issuers and their service providers utilize Platform id.
Our ACCESSWIRE® news business offering represented a majority of the year over year growth in our Platform and Technology revenue during 2017 and continues to lead our transition to a full platform solution.
Also contributing to the growth in the percentage of Platform and Technology revenue is our focus on our platform first engagement strategy and converting customers which historically relied on us for services work to utilizing Platform id.
As part of our Platform and Technology strategy, we have been working with several select stock exchanges, whereby we make available certain parts of our platform, under agreement, to integrate our offerings.
Such partnerships should yield increased exposure to a targeted customer base that could impact our revenue and overall brand in the market.
is our primary cloud-based subscription platform that efficiently and effectively helps manage the events of our customers seeking to distribute their messaging to key constituents, investors, markets and regulatory systems around the globe.
consists of several related but distinct shareholder communications and compliance modules.
Certain of these capabilities were historically part of our disclosure management and shareholder communications offerings, but are now included into our fully integrated platform.
The ACCESSWIRE product offering focuses on press release distribution for both private and publicly held companies globally.
Currently, approximately 60% of our ACCESSWIRE revenue is on a subscription basis.
On July 3, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Filing Services Canada Inc. (“FSCwire”), which not only increased our customer base, but more importantly increased our global footprint, distribution capabilities and editorial team.
We recently completed the integration of FSCwire and rebranded it as ACCESSWIRE Canada, and will now begin to focus on offering those customers the full suite of products included in Platform id.
We will continue to brand our press release offerings under the name ACCESSWIRE, which we believe will solidify our market position in the newswire business.
ACCESSWIRE is dependent upon several key partners for news distribution, some of which are also partners that we rely on for other investor outreach offerings.
This module is centered around both our shareholder communications and news distribution offerings.
We anticipate the analytics and peer review components will become a focal point for Platform id.
During the fourth quarter of 2017, our dataset and analytics were integrated into our ACCESSWIRE offering as a way to add value and expand distribution via highly targeted lists of professionals from the dataset.
This has been accomplished by integrating our shareholder outreach module, formerly known as Investor Network, into and with Platform id.
Most of the customers subscribing to this module today are historical PrecisionIR (“PIR”) – Annual Report Service (“ARS”) users, as well as new customers purchasing the entire Platform id.
Initially, this has been broadly distributed via our Investor Network platform, with expectations that partners and publishers will license this dataset for their platforms in the future.


item4.txt
As of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report on Form10-Q, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer conducted an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
None, except as previously disclosed on the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 5, 2018.
None.


