fls.txt



item1.txt
CSPi and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security products, managed IT services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Revenue generated from managed services is recognized over the term of the contract.
The non-lease component includes the managed services and is subject to ASC 606.
Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on the date of customer shipment.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty.
Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping.
Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.
HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
Financing revenue is recorded in revenue as equipment leasing and is part of the Company’s operations.
An estimate for professional services is made at the beginning of each contract based on prior experience and monitored throughout the services.
This method is most appropriate as it depicts the measure of progress towards satisfaction of the performance obligation.


item2.txt
No income taxes were provided as the transaction was a tax-free exchange in the U.K. Our revenues increased by approximately $1.6 million, or 8%, to $21.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $20.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The increase in revenue is the result of an increase of $2.5 million in our TS segment, offset with a $0.9 million decrease in our HPP segment.
Operating income decreased by approximately $0.1 million from operating income of $0.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 to operating income of $0.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, primarily as a result decrease in gross margin percentage as a percent of revenue partially offset by a decrease in engineering and development expenses of $0.3 million.
Our provision for income tax was a tax benefit of $326 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to a tax expense of $249 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Our revenues increased by approximately $1.6 million to $21.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $20.0 million of revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The HPP product revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2019 of $1.6 million, decreased by $0.1 million from $1.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, primarily as a result of a decrease in Myricom product sales.
The decrease in HPP services revenues of $0.9 million is primarily attributed to a $0.8 million decrease in royalties on high-speed processing boards related to the E2D program shipped for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The increase in TS segment product revenues of $2.1 million during the period was primarily the result of an increase in product revenues of $3.3 million in our U.S. division, partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease of product revenue in our U.K. division.
The U.S. division service revenues $0.5 million increase was substantially the result of a $0.2 million increase in managed service contracts, an increase in third party maintenance and services revenues of $0.6 million, partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in internal services.
The $3.0 million increase in revenue to the Americas is primarily the result of increased sales by our TS segment of $4.5 million partially offset by decreased sales by our HPP segment of $1.5 million.
Our gross margin ("GM") decreased by $0.4 million to $4.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to a gross margin of approximately $5.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.


item4.txt



