fls.txt
We discuss many of these risks and uncertainties in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.


item1.txt
CSPi and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security products, managed IT services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Revenue generated from managed services is recognized over the term of the contract.
The non-lease component includes the managed services and is subject to ASC 606.
Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on the date of customer shipment.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty.
Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping.
Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.
HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
Financing revenue is recorded in revenue as equipment leasing and is part of the Company's operations.
An estimate for professional services is made at the beginning of each contract based on prior experience and monitored throughout the services.
This method is most appropriate as it depicts the measure of progress towards satisfaction of the performance obligation.


item2.txt
No income taxes were provided as the transaction was a tax-free exchange in the U.K. Our revenues decreased by approximately $0.3 million, or 2%, to $16.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The decrease in revenue is the result of a decrease of $0.1 million in our TS segment, combined with a $0.2 million decrease in our HPP segment.
Operating loss decreased by approximately $0.1 million from an operating loss of $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to an operating loss of $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily as a result of a decrease of $0.3 million in operating expenses partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in gross profit.
Our provision for income tax was a tax benefit of $142 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to a tax benefit of $160 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Our revenues decreased by approximately $0.3 million to $16.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $16.6 million of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The HPP product revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $1.4 million, decreased by $0.1 million from $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily as a result of a decrease in Myricom product sales.
The decrease in TS segment product revenues of $0.3 million during the period was primarily the result of a decrease in product revenues of $1.5 million in our U.S. division, partially offset by an increase of product revenue of $1.1 million in our U.K. division.
The $1.5 million decrease in the U.S. division was primarily the result of product sales to a major customer in the The $1.1 million increase in the U.K. division product revenues was primarily the result of increased product shipments to one major customer.
The $0.3 million increase in the U.S. division service revenues was substantially the result of a $0.2 million increase in managed service contracts, an increase in third party maintenance and services revenues of $0.5 million, partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in internal services.
The $0.1 million decrease in revenue to Europe is primarily the result of decreased sales by our HPP segment of $0.2 million, partially offset by increased sales by our TS segment of $0.1 million.
Our gross margin ("GM") decreased by $0.2 million to $3.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to a gross margin of approximately $4.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.


item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.


