item1.txt
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards of the Company, was approximately $8.24 billion.
In addition to the consideration transferred, the Company recognized in its consolidated financial statements $3.23 billion in liabilities of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
The acquisition was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting, with the Company identified as the acquirer, and the operating results of Microsemi have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements as of the closing date of the acquisition.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the aggregate amount of consideration paid by the Company was allocated to Microsemi's net tangible assets and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of May 29, 2018.
For contracts related to the purchase of semiconductor products, the Company satisfies its performance obligation when control of the ordered product transfers to the customer.
As a result, following an acquisition, the Company will from time to time incur restructuring expenses; however, the Company is often not able to estimate the timing or amount of such costs in advance of the period in which they occur.
As a result of this approach, at the time of an acquisition, the Company is not able to estimate the future amount of expected employee separation or exit costs that it will incur in connection with its restructuring activities.
The Company's restructuring expenses during the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018 were primarily related to the Company's most recent business acquisitions, and resulted from workforce, property and other operating expense rationalizations as well as combining product roadmaps and manufacturing operations.
In this regard, the Company estimates it will incur costs of $15 million to $25 million associated with restructuring certain of its wafer fabrication operations over the next year.
The Company has incurred $40.6 million in costs in connection with contract exit activities since the start of fiscal 2017 which includes expense of $0.5 million for each of three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to an expense of $4.0 million and income of $3.0 million for three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The liability for restructuring and other exit costs of $30.8 million is included in accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities, on the Company's consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2019.
The Company sold available-for-sale debt securities for proceeds of $1.38 billion during the year ended March 31, 2019 to help finance its acquisition of Microsemi.
The Company recognized losses of $5.6 million on available-for-sale debt securities during the year ended March 31, 2019.
The Company's non-marketable equity, cost method investments, certain acquired liabilities and non-financial assets, such as intangible assets, assets held for sale and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis.
The fair value measurements related to the Company's non-financial assets, such as intangible assets, assets held for sale and property, plant and equipment are based on available market prices at the measurement date based on transactions of similar assets and third-party independent appraisals, less costs to sell where appropriate.
The fair values of the Company's line of credit borrowings are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, based on the Company's current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements and approximate carrying value excluding debt issuance costs.
Based on the borrowing rates currently available to the Company for bank loans with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of the Company's line of credit borrowings at September 30, 2019 approximated the carrying value and are considered Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy described in Note 8.
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of the Company's senior and junior subordinated convertible debt, senior secured notes, and term loan facility as of September 30, 2019 and March 31, 2019 (in millions).
As the Company's leases generally do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its collateralized incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date, including lease term, in determining the present value of lease payments.
The Company's effective tax rate for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 is lower compared to the prior year primarily due to significant non-recurring discrete benefits related to releases of uncertain tax positions and Microsemi integration.
The Company's effective tax rate is different than the statutory rates in the U.S. due to foreign income taxed at different rates than the U.S., changes in uncertain tax benefit positions, changes to valuation allowances, generation of tax credits, and the impact of the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income ("GILTI") tax in the United States.
In addition, the Company has numerous tax holidays it receives related to its Thailand manufacturing operations based on its investment in property, plant and equipment in Thailand, as well as Microsemi’s tax holiday in Malaysia that effectively reduces its income tax rate in that jurisdiction.
The Company does not expect the future expiration of any of its tax holiday periods in Thailand to have a material impact on its effective tax rate.
Summary of Conversion Features - Each series of Convertible Debt is convertible, subject to certain conditions, into cash, shares of the Company's common stock or a combination thereof, at the Company's election, at specified Conversion Rates (see table below), adjusted for certain events including the declaration of cash dividends.
Except during the three-month period immediately preceding the maturity date of the applicable series of Convertible Debt, each series of Convertible Debt is convertible only upon the occurrence of (1) such time as the closing price of the Company's common stock exceeds the Conversion Price (see table below) by 130% for 20 days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter or (2) during the 5 business day period after any 10 consecutive trading day period, or the measurement period, in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of the Company's common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day or (3) upon the occurrence of certain corporate events specified in the indenture of such series of Convertible Debt.
In addition, for each series, if at the time of conversion the applicable price of the Company's common stock exceeds the applicable Conversion Price at such time, the applicable Conversion Rate will be increased by up to an additional maximum incremental shares rate, as determined pursuant to a formula specified in the indenture for the applicable series of Convertible Debt, and as adjusted for cash dividends paid since the issuance of such series of Convertible Debt.
The Notes and the Note Guarantees are secured, on a pari passu first lien basis with the Senior Credit Facilities, by substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (other than certain excluded assets) of the Company and the guarantors that secure obligations under the Senior Credit Facilities, in each case subject to certain thresholds, exceptions and permitted liens, as set forth in the indenture for the Senior Secured Notes and the Security Agreement, dated May 29, 2018, by and among the Company, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto and the Collateral Agent (the "Security Agreement").
In connection with the amendment of the Credit Agreement, the Company incurred issuance costs of $1.75 million, which will be amortized using the effective interest method over the term of the debt.
The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict the Company and its subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur subsidiary indebtedness, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of assets, make investments, make acquisitions, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, pay dividends or make distributions, repurchase stock, enter into restrictive agreements and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.
The Company is also required to comply with a Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio of at least 3.25 to 1.00 for any period ended on or after the Microsemi Acquisition Closing Date, measured quarterly.
The Company's net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2020 is expected to be approximately $3.3 million.
In the ordinary course of the Company's business, it is exposed to various liabilities as a result of contracts, product liability, customer claims, governmental investigations and other matters.
With respect to pending legal actions to which the Company is a party and other claims, although the outcomes are generally not determinable, the Company believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
The complaint generally alleged that defendants breached their fiduciary duties by, among other things, making or causing the Company to make false and misleading statements and omissions regarding the Microsemi acquisition, the Company’s business, operations, and prospects, and a purported failure to maintain internal controls.
Among other things, the plaintiffs in this matter allege that statements the Microchip executives made about excess shipments of products by Microsemi into the distribution channel were defamatory and that Microchip executives, including Mr. Sanghi, made false statements about Microsemi's shipments of products into the distribution channel, about certain Microsemi business practices and about the relative strength of the financial results of Microchip and Microsemi for the June 2018 quarter.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company had not recorded any liabilities related to these indemnification obligations and the Company believes that any amounts that it may be required to pay under these agreements in the future will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
At this time, the Company does not believe that this IT system compromise has had a material adverse effect on its business or resulted in any material damage to it and the Company does not currently believe that such matters will have a material adverse effect on its financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
To help manage the risk of changes in foreign currency rates, the Company periodically enters into derivative contracts comprised of foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its asset and liability foreign currency exposure and a portion of its foreign currency operating expenses.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company had foreign currency forward contracts outstanding with a notional amount of $250.0 million and $30.1 million to economically hedge certain balance sheet exposures related to the Malaysian ringgit and Taiwanese dollar, respectively.
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recognized $40.2 million of share-based compensation expense in connection with the acquisition of Microsemi, of which $1.6 million was capitalized into inventory and $17.1 million was due to the accelerated vesting of outstanding equity awards upon termination of certain Microsemi employees.
Acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results.
These credit ratings impact our cost of borrowing and our ability to access the capital markets and are based on our financial performance and certain financial metrics including debt levels.
Although these increases in tariffs did not result in significant increases to the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2019 and the six months ended September 30, 2019.
The recent additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from China will increase our costs and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in the three months ending December 31, 2019 or future periods.
Failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in violations of applicable securities laws, stock exchange listing requirements, and the covenants under our debt agreements, subject us to litigation and investigations, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements, and adversely impact our stock price and ability to access capital markets.
If we fail to remediate our material weaknesses or significant deficiencies or to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, harm our ability to operate our business and reduce the trading price of our stock.
The financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of net sales.
Any one or more of these sanctions, future sanctions, a change in laws or regulations, or a prohibition on shipment of our products or transfer of our technology to significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Although these increases in tariffs did not result in significant increases to the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2019 and the first and second quarters of fiscal 2020.
The recent additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from China will increase our costs and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in the three months ending December 31, 2019 or future periods.
Although these increases in tariffs did not result in significant increases to the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2019 and the first and second quarters of fiscal 2020.
The recent additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from China will increase our costs and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in the three months ending December 31, 2019 or future periods.
Further delays, reductions in or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, including those caused by any past or future shutdown of the U.S. federal government, could materially and adversely affect our operating results.
Nevertheless, in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-U.S. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Our relationships with customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if we are unable to certify that our products are "conflict-free." We have incurred, and expect in the future to incur, additional costs associated with complying with these new disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products.
If we are unable to comply with the terms of those grants, we may not be able to receive or recognize grant benefits or we may be required to repay grant benefits previously paid to us and recognize related charges, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial position.


item2.txt
Total share-based compensation expense recognized during the six months ended September 30, 2019 was $86.0 million, of which $75.9 million was reflected in operating expenses and $10.1 million was reflected in cost of sales.
As a result of production being below normal operating levels in our wafer fabrication facilities, approximately $16.2 million was charged to cost of sales in the six months ended September 30, 2019.
The decrease in net sales in the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve, which were negatively impacted by general economic conditions, trade restrictions and adverse changes in tariffs.
The increase in net sales in the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the six months ended September 30, 2018 was due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi as the September 30, 2019 results included two full quarters of Microsemi net sales compared to four months of Microsemi net sales in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
The decreases are due to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve and our acquisition of Microsemi, whose microcontroller product line accounted for a relatively low percentage of its total net sales.
Net sales of our microcontroller products decreased 10.4% and 6.3% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
Sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products accounted for approximately 29.4% and 29.3% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to approximately 29.3% and 28.4% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The increases are due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose analog, interface, mixed signal and timing product line accounted for a relatively high percentage of its total net sales.
Net sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products decreased 6.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and increased 3.9% in the six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
The increase for the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the six months ended September 30, 2018 is due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi, partially offset by adverse demand conditions in the markets we serve.
Sales of our FPGA products accounted for approximately 7.0% and 6.9% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to approximately 4.9% and 4.1% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Net sales of our FPGA products increased 31.6% and 69.5% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
Revenue from these services and products accounted for approximately 11.4% and 10.9% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to approximately 11.5% and 10.8% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Net sales related to these services and products decreased 6.7% in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and increased 2.0% in the six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
LMO net sales can fluctuate over time based on general economic and semiconductor industry conditions as well as changes in demand for our licenses, engineering services, memory products, and manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting).
Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 79% of our total net sales in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to approximately 80% and 82% of our total net sales in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Sales to customers in Asia have generally increased over time due to many of our customers transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia and growth in demand from the emerging Asian market; however, sales to Asia in dollars and as a percentage of our total net sales decreased in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose sales to customers in Asia accounted for a smaller portion of their total net sales than Microchip's historical business, and to a lesser extent, trade restrictions and adverse changes in tariffs.
Sales to customers in the Americas increased as a percentage of total sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which had more concentration in the aerospace and defense industry in the Americas.
The increases in the percentage of assembly and test operations that were performed internally in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 are primarily due to our investments in assembly and test equipment, which increased our internal capacity capabilities, and also due to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve, which reduced our demand for external assembly and test operations.
Approximately 61% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to approximately 58% and 54% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The timing of the acquisition, which occurred on May 29, 2018, also contributed to the increase as the September 30, 2019 results included a full six months of Microsemi activity compared to four months in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
We may increase our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility or seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, for cash dividends, for share repurchases or for acquisitions or other purposes.


part2.txt
Although these increases in tariffs did not result in significant increases to the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2019 and the six months ended September 30, 2019.
The recent additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from China will increase our costs and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in the three months ending December 31, 2019 or future periods.
We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results.
Our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if the countries in which such contractors are located were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption.
In any such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
We may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results.
Any significant disruption to our systems or networks, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations, sales and operating results.
Any such loss of data by our third-party service providers could negatively impact our business, operations and financial results, as well as our relationship with our customers.
Failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in violations of applicable securities laws, stock exchange listing requirements, and the covenants under our debt agreements, subject us to litigation and investigations, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements, and adversely impact our stock price and ability to access capital markets.
If we fail to remediate our material weaknesses or significant deficiencies or to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, harm our ability to operate our business and reduce the trading price of our stock.
The financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of net sales.
Any one or more of these sanctions, future sanctions, a change in laws or regulations, or a prohibition on shipment of our products or transfer of our technology to significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Although these increases in tariffs did not result in significant increases to the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2019 and the first and second quarters of fiscal 2020.
The recent additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from China will increase our costs and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in the three months ending December 31, 2019 or future periods.
Although these increases in tariffs did not result in significant increases to the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2019 and the first and second quarters of fiscal 2020.
The recent additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from China will increase our costs and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in the three months ending December 31, 2019 or future periods.
Future sales to U.S. government agencies or customers are also subject to uncertain government appropriations and national defense policies and priorities, including the constraints of the budgetary process, changes in the timing and potential spending priorities and the impact of any past or future government shutdowns, contract terminations or renegotiations, or future sequestrations.
Further delays, reductions in or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, including those caused by any past or future shutdown of the U.S. federal government, could materially and adversely affect our operating results.
If the U.S. government fails to complete its annual budget process or to provide for a continuing resolution to fund government operations, another federal government shutdown may occur, during which time we may experience further delays and reductions in appropriations or reductions in or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.
While we generally function as a subcontractor in these type of transactions, further changes in U.S. government procurement regulations and practices, particularly surrounding initiatives to reduce costs, may adversely impact the contracting environment and our operating results.
Any failure to maintain compliance with these requirements may result in fines and penalties and loss of current or future business that may materially and adversely affect our operating results.
Nevertheless, in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-U.S. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Although our business has not been materially adversely impacted by recent changes in the value of the U.S. dollar, there can be no assurance as to the future impact that any weakness or strength in the U.S. dollar will have on our business or results of operations.
Our failure to comply, or the failure of entities that we have acquired over time to have complied, with applicable regulations could result in significant fines, liability for clean up, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities.
If we cannot certify that we are using conflict-free minerals, customers may demand that we change the sourcing of minerals and other materials used in the manufacture of our products, even if the costs for compliant minerals and materials significantly increases and availability is limited.
Our relationships with customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if we are unable to certify that our products are "conflict-free." We have incurred, and expect in the future to incur, additional costs associated with complying with these new disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products.
Currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the U.S., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside of the U.S. The adoption of the Act significantly changed the taxation of U.S.-based multinational corporations, by, among other things, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, assessing a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and creating new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings.
A significant portion of our earnings are earned by our subsidiaries outside the U.S. Changes to the taxation of certain foreign earnings resulting from the Act, along with the state tax impact of these changes and potential future cash distributions, will likely have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate.


