fls.txt



item1.txt
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Logitech and its subsidiaries.
The condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 17, 2019.
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented.
Operating results for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020, or any future periods.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below under Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, there have been no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted the new standard effective April 1, 2019 and recorded an ROU asset and lease liability related to its operating leases.
Adoption of the standard resulted in the recognition of $31.3 million of ROU assets and $37.4 million of lease liabilities related to the Company's leases on its condensed consolidated balance sheet on April 1, 2019.
The adoption of the standard did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated statement of operations, comprehensive income, changes in shareholders' equity or cash flows.
will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements and plans to adopt the standard effective April 1, 2020.
Share equivalents attributable to outstanding stock options, restricted stock units ("RSUs") and employee share purchase rights (ESPP) totaling 1.9 million and 0.8 million for the three months ended  September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 2.0 million and 1.2 million for the six months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted net income per share because the combined exercise price and average unamortized grant date fair value upon exercise of these options and ESPP or vesting of RSUs were greater than the average market price of the Company's shares during the periods presented herein, and therefore their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.
The income tax benefit in the respective period primarily consists of tax benefit related to the share-based compensation expense for the period and direct tax benefit realized, including net excess tax benefits recognized from share-based awards vested or exercised during the period.
Benefits are provided based on employees’ years of service and earnings, or in accordance with applicable employee benefit regulations.


item2.txt
You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased 5%, 6%, and 1% in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our sales for the six months ended September 30, 2019 increased 5%, 8%, and 1% in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results.
•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
•Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers.
In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected.
There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments.
As we introduce new or enhanced products, integrate new technology into new or existing products, or reduce the overall number of products offered, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, excessive levels of new and existing product inventories, revenue deterioration in our existing product lines, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment.
We expect this trend may continue.
As a result, we are attempting to diversify our product category portfolio and focusing more of our attention, which may include personnel, financial resources and management attention, on product innovations and growth opportunities, including products for gaming, products for video collaboration, products for the consumption of digital music, products for the digital home, and on other potential growth opportunities in addition to our PC peripherals product categories.
If we are not able to grow our existing and acquired product lines and introduce differentiated products and marketing strategies to separate our products and brands from competitors' products and brands, our mobile speaker and audio headphone efforts will not be successful, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.


