More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
The Company sells its products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers and e-tailers and indirect sales through distributors.
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Logitech and its subsidiaries.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
They should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 21, 2018.
Operating results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, or any future periods.
Certain amounts from the comparative period in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the condensed consolidated financial statement presentation as of and for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing, and pricing programs ("Customer Programs") and related breakage when appropriate, accrued revenue reserve from returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, contingent consideration from business acquisitions and periodical reassessment of its fair value, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
The new standard requires reporting companies to disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 increased 6% and 10%, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, supported by stronger net sales in Asia Pacific.
Our net sales for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased 1%, 6%, and 18% in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories.
•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited.
result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive.
•Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers.