fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company sells its products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers and indirect sales through distributors.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
They should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 26, 2017.
Operating results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018, or any future periods.
Certain amounts from the comparative period in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the condensed consolidated financial statement presentation as of and for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below, there have been no substantial changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer programs and related breakage when appropriate, sales return reserves, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, contingent consideration from business acquisitions and periodical reassessment of its fair value, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company expects to complete its analysis of Topic 606 and reasonably estimate the impact to its consolidated financial statements when its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018 is filed.
It is possible that during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company may identify additional areas which may result in material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2016-01 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements and will adopt this standard effective April 1, 2018.


item2.txt
You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
More than 35 years ago Logitech created products to improve experiences around the PC platform, and now it is designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content (e.g., music, gaming, video), whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
For the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, ASTRO contributed $33.5 million and $36.2 million to net sales, respectively, representing approximately 4% of our net sales for the three-month period and 2% for the nine-month period.
We experienced significant challenges in the transition from one distribution center to two, operating procedures at the newer distribution center, and in ramping fulfillment in the second quarter and early third quarter of fiscal year 2018.


item3.txt
The functional currency of our operations is primarily the U.S. Dollar.


item4.txt
The Company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) (“Disclosure Controls”) as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this “Report”) required by Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b).


part2.txt
We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers.
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories.
•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited.
As a result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive.
•Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers.
In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected.


