fls.txt



item1.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
The condensed financial information as of April 30, 2018 and for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018 and April 30, 2017 is unaudited.
However, in our opinion, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for and at the end of the interim periods.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through April 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges under the FASB guidance and, as a result, changes in their fair value are reported currently as Other expense, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income consistent with the transaction gain or loss on the related receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We recognized a gain of $32,000 for the three months ended April 30, 2017 as a result of contracts closed early that were deemed ineffective for financial reporting purposes and did not qualify as cash flow hedges.
We recognized a gain of $168,000 for the six months ended April 30, 2017 as a result of contracts closed early that were deemed ineffective for financial reporting purposes and did not qualify as cash flow hedges.
The 2016 Equity Plan replaced the Hurco Companies, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2008 Plan”) and is the only active plan under which equity awards may be made by us to our employees and non-employee directors.
The total number of shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to awards under the 2016 Equity Plan is 856,048, which includes 386,048 shares remaining available for future grants under the 2008 Plan as of March 10, 2016, the date our shareholders approved the 2016 Equity Plan.
The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors has the authority to determine the officers, directors and key employees who will be granted awards under the 2016 Equity Plan; designate the number of shares subject to each award; determine the terms and conditions upon which awards will be granted; and prescribe the form and terms of award agreements.
No stock option may be exercised more than ten years after the date of grant or such shorter period as the Compensation Committee may determine at the date of grant.


item2.txt
We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world’s principal machine tool consuming markets.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments, principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Sales and service fees for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were $70.4 million, an increase of $12.2 million, or 21%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $4.9 million, or 8%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in sales was primarily attributable to an increased sales volume of entry-level vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco and Milltronics product lines.
European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 14%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in the United Kingdom and Italy.
Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 22%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China and India, both of which are sales regions Hurco has been targeting for growth.
Sales of service parts increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket sales in the Americas and Europe.
Service fees increased slightly in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to increased demand for aftermarket service in Germany, the United Kingdom and the Americas.
Orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were a record $79.9 million, an increase of $16.6 million, or 26%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $5.4 million, or 9%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.


item3.txt
All of our computerized machine tools and computer control systems, as well as certain proprietary service parts, are sourced by our U.S.-based engineering and manufacturing division and re-invoiced to our foreign sales and service subsidiaries, primarily in their functional currencies.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Pursuant to applicable accounting rules, we accrue the minimum liability for each known claim when the estimated outcome is a range of possible loss and no one amount within that range is more likely than another.


