Logitech International S.A, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, ("Logitech" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences.
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
In August 2018, the Company acquired Blue Microphones Holding Corporation.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
They should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 21, 2018.
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below under Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, there have been no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable.
Significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing, and pricing programs ("Customer Programs") and related breakage when appropriate, accrued revenue reserve from returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, contingent consideration from business acquisitions and periodical reassessment of its fair value, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
ASU 2014-09 outlines a new, single, comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors.
This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results.
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories.
Dollars, whereas a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are in other currencies.
The development process also can be lengthy and costly.