In May 2014, the FASB released ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP.
The FASB issued subsequent amendments to the initial guidance in August 2015, March 2016, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016 within ASU 2015–14, ASU 2016–08, ASU 2016–10, ASU 2016–12 and ASU 2016–20, respectively; all of which in combination with ASU 2014-09 were codified as Accounting Standard Codification Topic 606 (“ASC 606”).
The core principle of the standard is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The Company adopted ASC 606 on the first day of the current fiscal year, June 25, 2018, under the modified retrospective approach, applying the amendments to prospective reporting periods.
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after June 25, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under ASC 605.
In conjunction with the adoption of ASC 606, the Company’s revenue recognition policy has been amended, refer to Note 3 - Revenue for a description of the amendments.
Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $139.4 million, net of tax adjustment of $21.0 million, which increased the June 25, 2018 opening retained earnings balance on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily as a result of changes in the timing of recognition of system sales.
Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenue from sales of systems when the Company determines that control has passed to the customer which is generally (1) for products that have been demonstrated to meet product specifications prior to shipment upon shipment or delivery; (2) for products that have not been demonstrated to meet product specifications prior to shipment, revenue is recognized upon completion of installation and receipt of customer acceptance; (3) for transactions where legal title does not pass upon shipment or delivery and the Company does not have a right to payment, revenue is recognized when legal title passes to the customer and the Company has a right to payment, which is generally at customer acceptance.
Except as disclosed above, the adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019.
These amendments change the accounting for and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee.
The amendments provide clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes.
The Company’s adoption of this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows – Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” The amendment provides and clarifies guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows to eliminate diversity in practice.
The Company’s adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In October 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-16, “Income Tax – Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.” This standard update improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The Company’s adoption of this standard resulted in a $0.4 million decrease to retained earnings and a corresponding $0.4 million increase to other assets on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In November 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows – Restricted Cash.” This standard update requires that restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included in cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown in the statement of cash flows.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The adoption of this standard resulted in a $2.2 million increase to retained earnings, with a corresponding $2.2 million decrease to other comprehensive income.
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) adopted amendments to eliminate, integrate, update or modify certain of its disclosure requirements.
The amendments are part of the SEC’s efforts to improve disclosure effectiveness and were focused on eliminating disclosure requirements that have become redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated, or superseded.
The Company adopted these amendments in the first quarter of fiscal Year 2019 and as a result the Company has included a Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity to this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
The Company expects that the Company’s 2019 annual report on Form 10-K will omit a number of disclosures previously required in Part II.
Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, as well as other minor changes.
In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-18, "Collaborative Arrangements (Topic 808).” The amendment clarifies that certain transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement should be accounted for under Topic 606 when the counterparty is a customer for a good or service that is a distinct unit of account.
The amendment also precludes entities from presenting consideration from transactions with a collaborator that is not a customer together with revenue recognized from contracts with customers.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adoptions on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company recognizes revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services by following a five-step process, (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price, and (5) recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation, as further described below.
Performance obligations include sales of systems, spare parts, and services; as well as, installation and training services included in customer contracts, both of which have been deemed immaterial in the context of the contract.
Fixed consideration includes amounts to be contractually billed to the customer while variable consideration includes estimates for discounts and credits for future usage which are based on contractual terms outlined in volume purchase agreements and other factors known at the time.
The Company generally invoices customers at shipment and for professional services either as provided or upon meeting certain milestones.
Customer invoices are generally due within 30 to 90 days after issuance.
The Company’s contracts with customers typically do not include significant financing components as the period between the transfer of performance obligations and timing of payment are generally within one year.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract.
For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis.
Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation.
Revenue from services is recognized over time as services are completed or ratably over the contractual period of generally one year or less.
Revenue of $126.9 million and $539.6 million included in deferred revenue at June 25, 2018 was recognized during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019, respectively.
The Lam Research Corporation 2015 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2015 Plan”), provides for the grant of non-qualified equity-based awards of the Company’s Common Stock to eligible employees and non-employee directors, including stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and market-based performance RSUs (“market-based PRSUs”).
An option is a right to purchase Common Stock at a set price.
An RSU award is an agreement to issue a set number of shares of Common Stock at the time of vesting.
The Company’s market-based PRSUs contain both a market condition and a service condition.
The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years.
The Company also has an employee stock purchase plan that allows employees to purchase its Common Stock at a discount through payroll deductions.
During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, the Company issued both service-based RSUs and market-based performance RSUs (“PRSUs”).
Market-based PRSUs generally vest three years from the grant date if certain performance criteria are achieved and require continued employment.
Based upon the terms of such awards, the number of shares that can be earned over the performance periods is based on the Company’s Common Stock price performance compared to the market price performance of the Philadelphia Semiconductor Sector Index (“SOX”), ranging from 0% to 150% of target.
The stock price performance or market price performance is measured using the closing price for the 50-trading days prior to the dates the performance period begins and ends.
The target number of shares represented by the market-based PRSUs is increased by 2% of target for each 1% that Common Stock price performance exceeds the market price performance of the SOX index.
The result of the vesting formula is rounded down to the nearest whole number.
The Company recorded an income tax expense of $38.7 million and $187.5 million for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately 6.6% and 10.2%, respectively.
Beginning in fiscal year 2019, the Company is subject to the impact of the “Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income” (“GILTI”) provision of U.S. tax reform.
The Company has calculated the impact of the GILTI provision on current year earnings and has included the impact in the effective tax rate.
Based on current interpretation, the Company could choose either method as an accounting policy election.
The Company made an accounting policy election in the September 2018 quarter to record deferred taxes in relation to the GILTI provision, and recorded a provisional tax benefit of $48.0 million
The final adjustment resulted in a tax expense of $0.4 million, which was recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the three months ended December 23, 2018.
The final tax benefit of the election is $47.6 million.
The Company is in various stages of examinations in connection with all of its tax audits worldwide, and it is difficult to determine when these examinations will be settled.
The change in unrecognized tax benefits may range up to $14.0 million.
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income per share is computed using the treasury stock method, for dilutive stock options, restricted stock units, convertible notes, and warrants.
Dilutive shares outstanding include the effect of the convertible notes.
Refer to Note 12 - Long-term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the Company’s convertible notes.
The following table reconciles the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted computations for net income per share.
Diluted shares outstanding do not include any effect resulting from note hedges associated with the Company’s 2018 Notes as their impact would have been anti-dilutive.
The Company maintains an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
The Company’s mutual funds, which are related to the Company’s obligations under the deferred compensation plan, are classified as trading securities.
Investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices.
All of the Company’s other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
The Company’s primary financial instruments include its cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital leases, and foreign currency related derivative instruments.
The estimated fair value of cash, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates their carrying value due to the short period of time to their maturities.
The estimated fair values of capital lease obligations approximate their carrying value as the substantial majority of these obligations have interest rates that adjust to market rates on a periodic basis.
Refer to Note 12 - Long-Term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the fair value of the Company’s senior notes and convertible senior notes.
Realized gains (losses) for investment sales are specifically identified.
Management assesses the fair value of investments in debt securities that are not actively traded through consideration of interest rates and their impact on the present value of the cash flows to be received from the investments.
The Company also considers whether changes in the credit ratings of the issuer could impact the assessment of fair value.
Additionally, the Company also considers factors such as the Company’s intent to sell the security and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis.
The Company has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.
Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than 12 months from the date of purchase nonetheless are classified as short-term on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options with financial institutions with the primary objective of reducing volatility of earnings and cash flows related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swap arrangements to manage interest rate risk.
The counterparties to these derivatives are large global financial institutions that the Company believes are creditworthy, and therefore, it does not consider the risk of counterparty nonperformance to be material.
In addition, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in certain benchmark interest rates on fixed rate debt.
These instruments are designated as cash flow hedges at inception and are settled in conjunction with the issuance of debt.
The effective portion of the contracts’ gains or losses is included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is amortized into income as the hedged item impacts earnings.
At inception and at each quarter-end, hedges are tested prospectively and retrospectively for effectiveness using regression analysis.
Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts due to changes in time value are included in the assessment of effectiveness.
These criteria include identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows will be measured.
To receive hedge accounting treatment, all hedging relationships are formally documented at the inception of the hedge, and the hedges must be tested to demonstrate an expectation of providing highly effective offsetting changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions.
When derivative instruments are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the Company recognizes effective changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged exposure is realized.
If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company does not believe that the underlying hedged forecasted transactions will occur, the Company may not be able to account for its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges.
If this were to occur, future changes in the fair values of the Company’s derivative instruments would be recognized in earnings.
Additionally, related amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income would be reclassified to income immediately.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had a net loss of $0.4 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to foreign exchange cash flow hedges which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 12 months.
Company had a net loss of $2.1 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to interest rate contracts which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 6.0 years.
The Company has interest rate contracts whereby the Company receives fixed rates and pays variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates, resulting in a net increase or decrease to interest expense, a component of other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
These interest rate contracts are designated as fair value hedges and hedge against changes in the fair value of our debt portfolio.
The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap.
Therefore, the derivative is considered to be effective at achieving offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged liability, and no ineffectiveness is recognized.
The Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge fluctuations associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables.
Under the master netting agreements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other.
However, the Company has elected to present the derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis on its balance sheet.
As of March 31, 2019, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange and interest rate contracts would be an offset to assets and liabilities by $1.3 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $1.2 million and net derivative liability of $16.9 million.
As of June 24, 2018, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange contracts would be an offset to both assets and liabilities by $5.6 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $2.1 million and a net derivative liability of $34.4 million.
The Company is not required to pledge, nor is the Company entitled to receive, cash collateral for these derivative transactions.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, trade accounts receivable, and derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities.
Cash is placed on deposit at large global financial institutions.
Such deposits may be in excess of insured limits.
Management believes that the financial institutions that hold the Company’s cash are creditworthy and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to these balances.
The Company’s overall portfolio of available-for-sale securities must maintain an average minimum rating of “AA-” or “Aa3” as rated by Standard and Poor’s, Fitch Ratings, or Moody’s Investor Services.
To ensure diversification and minimize concentration, the Company’s policy limits the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution or commercial issuer.
The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on foreign currency and interest rate hedge contracts that are used to mitigate the effect of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and on contracts related to structured share repurchase arrangements.
These counterparties are large global financial institutions and, to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligations to the Company.
The balance of goodwill is approximately $1.5 billion as of March 31, 2019 and June 24, 2018, respectively.
The Company recognized $36.6 million and $40.8 million in intangible asset amortization expense during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018.
During the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018, the Company recognized $109.4 million and $120.9 million, respectively, in intangible asset amortization expense.
In June 2012, with the acquisition of Novellus Systems, Inc., the Company assumed $700 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.625% Convertible Senior Notes due May 15, 2041 (the “2041 Notes,”).
The Company pays cash interest at an annual rate of 2.625%, on a semi-annual basis on May 15 and November 15 of each year.
The 2041 Notes also have a contingent interest payment provision that may require the Company to pay additional interest, up to 0.60% per year, based on certain thresholds, beginning with the semi-annual interest payment on May 15, 2021, and upon the occurrence of certain events, as outlined in the indenture governing the 2041 Notes.
The Company separately accounts for the liability and equity components of the 2041 Notes.
The initial debt components of the 2041 Notes were valued based on the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature, which equals the effective interest rate on the liability component disclosed in the table below, respectively.
The equity component was initially valued equal to the principle value of the notes, less the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without a conversion feature, which equated to the initial debt discount.
The 2041 Notes may be redeemed on or after May 21, 2021 at a price equal to outstanding principal plus accrued and unpaid interest if the last reported sales price of common shares has been equal to or more than 150% of the then applicable conversion price for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days prior to the redemption notice date.
The principal value of the 2041 Note conversions in the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019, was approximately $29.2 million and $114.6 million, respectively.
During the fiscal year 2019, the Company had warrants outstanding in connection with its 2018 convertible notes that matured in May 2018.
The 7.6 million warrants were fully exercised during the first half of fiscal year 2019 resulting in the issuance of approximately 4.1 million shares of the Company's Common Stock.
On March 4, 2019, the company completed a public offering of $750 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2026 (the “2026 Notes”), $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2029 (the “2029 Notes”), and $750 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2049 (the “2049 Notes”).
On March 12, 2015, the Company completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2020 (the “2020 Notes”) and $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2025 (the “2025 Notes”).
The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.75% and 3.80%, on the 2020 Notes and 2025 Notes, respectively, on a semi-annual basis on March 15 and September 15 of each year.
During the year ended June 26, 2016, the Company entered into a series of interest rate contracts hedging the fair value of a portion of the 2025 Notes par value, whereby the Company receives a fixed rate and pays a variable rate based on a certain benchmark interest rate.
Refer to Note 8 - Financial Instruments for additional information regarding these interest rate contracts.
On June 7, 2016, the Company completed a public offering of $800 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due June 15, 2021 (the “2021 Notes”).
In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the indenture, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the respective note, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
On November 13, 2017, the Company established a commercial paper program (“the CP Program”) under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1.25 billion.
The net proceeds from the commercial paper program will be used for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of the Company’s Common Stock from time to time under the Company’s stock repurchase program.
Amounts available under the CP Program may be re-borrowed.
As of March 31, 2019, borrowings under the CP Program totaled $300.0 million, with a weighted-average interest rate of 3.00% and maturities of 90 days or less.
On March 12, 2014, the Company established an unsecured Credit Agreement; this agreement was amended on November 10, 2015 (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”), October 13, 2017 (the 2nd Amendment”), and February 25, 2019 (the “3rd Amendment”).
Under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as amended by the 2nd and 3rd Amendment), the Company has a revolving credit facility of $1.25 billion with a syndicate of lenders with an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is, at the Company’s option, based on (1) a base rate, defined as the greatest of (a) prime rate, (b) Federal Funds rate plus 0.5%, or (c) one-month LIBOR plus 1.0%, plus a spread of 0.0% to 0.5%, or (2) LIBOR multiplied by the statutory rate, plus a spread of 0.9% to 1.50% in each case as the applicable spread is determined based on the rating of the Company’s non-credit enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt.
Principal and any accrued and unpaid interest is due and payable upon maturity.
Additionally, the Company will pay the lenders a quarterly commitment fee that varies based on the Company’s credit rating.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and was in compliance with all financial covenants.
The following table presents the amount of interest cost recognized relating to both the contractual interest coupon and amortization of the debt discount, issuance costs, and effective portion of interest rate contracts with respect to the Senior Notes, convertible notes, the term loan agreement, commercial paper, and the revolving credit facility during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018.
The Company has operating leases regarding certain improved properties in Fremont and Livermore, California (the “Operating Leases”).
The Company was required to maintain cash collateral in an aggregate of approximately $250.0 million in separate interest-bearing accounts as security for the Company’s obligations.
These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2019.
During the term of the Operating Leases and when the terms of the Operating Leases expire, the property subject to those Operating Leases may be remarketed.
The Company has guaranteed to the lessor that each property will have a certain minimum residual value.
The aggregate guarantee made by the Company under the Operating Leases is generally no more than approximately $220.4 million; however, under certain default circumstances, the guarantee with regard to an Operating Lease may be 100% of the lessor’s aggregate investment in the applicable property, which in no case will exceed $250.0 million, in the aggregate.
The Company has entered into certain insurance contracts that are intended to limit its exposure to such indemnifications.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had not recorded any liability in connection with these indemnifications, as it does not believe that it is probable that any amounts will be paid under these guarantees.
Generally, the Company indemnifies, under pre-determined conditions and limitations, its customers for infringement of third party intellectual property rights by the Company’s products or services.
The Company seeks to limit its liability for such indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the products or services subject to its indemnification obligations.
The Company does not believe that it is probable that any material amounts will be paid under these guarantees.
The Company provides guarantees and standby letters of credit to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated during the ordinary course of business.
As of March 31, 2019, the maximum potential amount of future payments that it could be required to make under these arrangements and letters of credit was $27.2 million.
The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid.
In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors, consistent with its Bylaws and Articles of Incorporation; and under California law, the Company is required to provide indemnification to all its employees for actions within the scope of their employment.
covered.
The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid under such indemnification agreements or statutory obligations.
The liability amount is based on actual historical warranty spending activity by type of system, customer, and geographic region, modified for any known differences such as the impact of system reliability improvements.
While the Company is not currently a party to any legal proceedings that it believes are material, the Company is either a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that have arisen from time to time in the normal course of business, including intellectual property claims.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
In November 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $5.0 billion of Common Stock.
These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law.
This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
In addition to the shares repurchased under the Board-authorized repurchase program shown above, during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019, the Company acquired 423 thousand shares at a total cost of $74.8 million and 447 thousand shares at a total cost of $78.5 million, respectively, which the Company withheld through net settlements to cover minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards granted under the Company’s equity compensation
plans.
The shares retained by the Company through these net share settlements are not a part of the Board-authorized repurchase program but instead are authorized under the Company’s equity compensation plan.
The Company took an initial delivery of approximately 3.3 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on January 30, 2019.
The total number of shares received under the January 2019 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
Final settlement of the January 2019 ASR is anticipated to occur no later than June 5, 2019.
On August 15, 2018, the Company entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "August 2018 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.4 billion of Common Stock.
The Company took an initial delivery of approximately 5.8 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on August 14, 2018.
The total number of shares received under the August 2018 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
Approximately 1.7 million shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $148.72 for the transaction period.
The remaining two agreements settled during the quarter ended March 31, 2019, resulting in the receipt of approximately 1.8 million additional shares, which yielded a weighted-average share price of approximately $146.00 for the transaction period.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
No priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry.
The changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities.
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively.
•the dilutive impact of our Convertible Notes (as defined below) on our earnings per share.
We have $4.8 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding.
Additionally, we have funding available to us under our $1.25 billion commercial paper program and our $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which serves as a backstop to our commercial paper program.
Our revolving credit facility also includes an option to increase the amount up to an additional $600.0 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
We could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments.
•impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.
Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt.
As a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds.
If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness.
Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders.
Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share.
Stock by investors who view the Convertible Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and also by hedging activity that may develop involving our Common Stock by holders of the Convertible Notes.
In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes, or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt.
We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success.
In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements.
Moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next-generation devices.
Similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps.
Outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization.
These locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, utility interruptions, or other events beyond our control.
Semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line.
We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse.
Non-U.S. sales, as reflected in Part 1 Item 1. Business, accounted for approximately 93%, 93%, and 92% of total revenue in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and fiscal years 2018, and 2017, respectively.
•our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business.
We are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
However, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and Korean won.
Currently, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses dominated in euro and Korean won.
In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables.
We believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation.
We expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future.
Moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges.
Additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures.
Therefore, we are subject to potential unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in these currencies.
Certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances.
Our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees with the appropriate skills, experiences and competencies.
This is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions.
Our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment.
We periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness.
•Our failure to meet, or violation of, regulatory or other legal obligations, such as the timely publication or filing of financial statements, tax information and other required communications.
While we have implemented ISO 27001 compliant security procedures and virus protection software, intrusion prevention systems, identity and access control, and emergency recovery processes, and we carefully select our third-party providers of information systems, to mitigate risks to the information systems that we rely on, those mitigation and protection systems cannot be guaranteed to be fail-safe and we may still suffer cyber-related incidents.
•dilutive impacts of our Convertible Notes.
In the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation.
In addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues.
From time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters.
In such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms.
Our Board of Directors has declared quarterly dividends since April 2014.
Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends and share repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us.
