In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2015-17, “Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes.” This ASU amends existing guidance to require that deferred income tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in a classified balance sheet, and eliminates the prior guidance which required an entity to separate deferred tax assets and liabilities into a current amount and a non-current amount in a classified balance sheet.
The implementation resulted in a net reduction of prepaid expense and other current assets of $49.7 million, accrued expense and other current liabilities of $5.3 million, and other long-term liabilities of $39.4 million; and an increase in other assets of $5.0 million in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and had no impact on cash provided by or used in operations for any period presented.
•the cash paid to satisfy the statutory income tax withholding obligations shall be classified as a financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded a $40.1 million cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings for the recognition of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits for all years prior to the adoption.
Accordingly, the provision for income taxes in the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 included excess tax benefits of $11.0 million and $13.0 million, respectively, that decreased the income tax provision.
Additionally, the Company has elected to apply the change in cash flow classification on a prospective basis.
The Company has elected to adopt the effects of the standard update with regard to the income tax withholdings obligations on a prospective basis.
In May 2014, the FASB released Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-9, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP.
The FASB issued subsequent amendments to the initial guidance in August 2015, March 2016, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016 within ASU 2015-14, ASU 2016-08, ASU 2016-10, ASU 2016-12 and ASU 2016-20, respectively.
The core principle of the standard is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The new standard defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than required under existing GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-1, “Financial Instruments – Overall – Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” The amendment changes the accounting for and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee.
The amendment provides clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and does not anticipate that implementation will have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-2, “Leases.” The amendment requires an entity to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements.
The amendment offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions.
Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows – Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” The amendment provides and clarifies guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows to eliminate diversity in practice.
The Company is required to adopt the standard update in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with a retrospective transition method required.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In October 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-16, “Income Tax – Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.” This standard update improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The Company is required to adopt the standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using a modified-retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In November 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows – Restricted Cash.” This standard update requires that restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included in cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown in the statement of cash flows.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Lam Research Corporation 2015 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2015 Plan”), provides for the grant of non-qualified equity-based awards of the Company’s Common Stock to eligible employees and non-employee directors, including stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and market-based performance RSUs (“market-based PRSUs”).
An option is a right to purchase Common Stock at a set price.
An RSU award is an agreement to issue a set number of shares of Common Stock at the time of vesting.
The Company’s market-based PRSUs contain both a market condition and a service condition.
The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years.
The Company also has an employee stock purchase plan that allows employees to purchase its Common Stock at a discount through payroll deductions.
The estimated fair value of the Company’s stock-based awards, less expected forfeitures, is amortized over the awards’ vesting term on a straight-line basis.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-9, “Compensation – Stock Compensation,” as discussed further in Note 2.
The 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated (the “1999 ESPP”), allows employees to designate a portion of their base compensation to be withheld through payroll deductions and used to purchase Common Stock at a purchase price per share equal to the lower of 85% of the fair market value of Common Stock on the first or last day of the applicable purchase period.
Typically, each offering period lasts up to twelve months and comprises two interim purchase dates.
During the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, a total of 412,469 shares of the Company’s Common Stock were sold to employees under the 1999 ESPP.
Loss on extinguishment of debt realized in the three months ended December 25, 2016 is primarily a result of the mandatory redemption of the Senior Notes Due 2023 and 2026 as well as the termination of the Term Loan Agreement.
The Company recorded an income tax expense of $744.2 million and $841.2 million for the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately 101.4% and 59.2%, respectively.
As the Company has a fiscal year ending the last Sunday in June, it is subject to transitional tax rate rules.
Therefore, a blended rate of 28.27% was computed as effective for the current fiscal year.
Revaluation of the Company’s deferred tax balances to reflect the new U.S. federal statutory tax rate and computation of the one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, were recorded on a provisional basis in the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 and are therefore subject to potential measurement period adjustments under SAB 118.
The GILTI provision imposes taxes on foreign earnings in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets.
This tax is effective for the Company after the end of the current fiscal year.
Based on current interpretation, the Company may choose either method as an accounting policy election.
The Company has not yet decided on the accounting policy related to GILTI and will only do so after completion of the GILTI analysis.
The Company is in various stages of examination in connection with all of its tax audits worldwide, and it is difficult to determine when these examinations will be settled.
The estimated reduction in unrecognized tax benefits may range up to $94 million.
Basic net (loss) income per share is computed by dividing net (loss) income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net (loss) income per share is computed using the treasury stock method, for dilutive stock options, restricted stock units, convertible notes, and warrants.
Dilutive shares outstanding include the effect of the convertible notes.
The following table reconciles the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted computations for net (loss) income per share.
Diluted shares outstanding do not include any effect resulting from note hedges associated with the Company’s 2018 Notes as their impact would have been anti-dilutive.
The Company maintains an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
The Company’s mutual funds, which are related to the Company’s obligations under the deferred compensation plan, are classified as trading securities.
Investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices.
All of the Company’s other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
The Company’s primary financial instruments include its cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital leases, and foreign currency related derivative instruments.
The estimated fair value of cash, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates their carrying value due to the short period of time to their maturities.
The estimated fair values of capital lease obligations approximate their carrying value as the substantial majority of these obligations have interest rates that adjust to market rates on a periodic basis.
Refer to Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the fair value of the Company’s Senior Notes and Convertible Notes.
The Company has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.
Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than twelve months from the date of purchase nonetheless are classified as short-term on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options with financial institutions with the primary objective of reducing volatility of earnings and cash flows related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swap arrangements to manage interest rate risk.
The counterparties to these derivatives are large global financial institutions that the Company believes are creditworthy, and therefore, it does not consider the risk of counterparty nonperformance to be material.
In addition, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in certain benchmark interest rates on fixed rate debt.
These instruments are designated as cash flow hedges at inception and are settled in conjunction with the issuance of debt.
The effective portion of the contracts’ gains or losses is included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) and is amortized into income as the hedged item impacts earnings.
At inception and at each quarter-end, hedges are tested prospectively and retrospectively for effectiveness using regression analysis.
Changes in the fair value of the forward contracts due to changes in time value are excluded from the assessment of effectiveness and are recognized in revenue or expense in the current period.
The change in time value related to these contracts was not material for all reported periods.
Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange options due to changes in time value are included in the assessment of effectiveness.
These criteria include identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows will be measured.
There were no material gains or losses during the three or six months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016 associated with ineffectiveness or forecasted transactions that failed to occur.
To receive hedge accounting treatment, all hedging relationships are formally documented at the inception of the hedge, and the hedges must be tested to demonstrate an expectation of providing highly effective offsetting changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions.
When derivative instruments are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the Company recognizes effective changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged exposure is realized.
If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company does not believe that the underlying hedged forecasted transactions will occur, the Company may not be able to account for its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges.
instruments would be recognized in earnings.
Additionally, related amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income would be reclassified to income immediately.
As of December 24, 2017, the Company had gains of $7.8 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to foreign exchange cash flow hedges which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 12 months.
Additionally, as of December 24, 2017, the Company had a net loss of $1.9 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to interest rate contracts which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 7.2 years.
The Company has interest rate contracts whereby the Company receives fixed rates and pays variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates, resulting in a net increase or decrease to interest expense, a component of other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
These interest rate contracts are designated as fair value hedges and hedge against changes in the fair value of our debt portfolio.
The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap.
Therefore, the derivative is considered to be effective at achieving offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged liability, and no ineffectiveness is recognized.
The Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge fluctuations associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables.
These forward contracts are not designated for hedge accounting treatment.
Under the master netting agreements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other.
However, the Company has elected to present the derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis on its balance sheet.
As of December 24, 2017, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange and interest rate contracts would be an offset to assets and liabilities by $4.1 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $5.6 million and net derivative liability of $15.5 million.
As of June 25, 2017, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange contracts would be an offset to both assets and liabilities by $5.9 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $2.3 million and a net derivative liability of $7.4 million.
The Company is not required to pledge, nor is the Company entitled to receive, cash collateral for these derivative transactions.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, trade accounts receivable, and derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities.
Cash is placed on deposit at large global financial institutions.
Such deposits may be in excess of insured limits.
Management believes that the financial institutions that hold the Company’s cash are creditworthy and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to these balances.
The Company’s overall portfolio of available-for-sale securities must maintain an average minimum rating of “AA-” or “Aa3” as rated by Standard and Poor’s, Fitch Ratings, or Moody’s Investor Services.
To ensure diversification and minimize concentration, the Company’s policy limits the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution or commercial issuer.
The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on foreign currency and interest rate hedge contracts that are used to mitigate the effect of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and on contracts related to structured share repurchase arrangements.
These counterparties are large global financial institutions and, to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligations to the Company.
The Company recognized $40.8 million and $38.6 million in intangible asset amortization expense during the three months ended December 24, 2017, and December 25, 2016, respectively.
During the six months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016, the company recognized $80.1 million and $77.3 million, respectively, in intangible asset amortization expense.
Refer to Note 15 - Business Combinations for additional information regarding intangible assets acquired during the six months ended December 24, 2017.
In May 2011, the Company issued and sold $450 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due May 2018 (the “2018 Notes”) at par.
The Company pays cash interest at an annual rate of 1.25%, on a semi-annual basis on May 15 and November 15 of each year.
In June 2012, with the acquisition of Novellus Systems, Inc. (“Novellus”), the Company assumed $700 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.625% Convertible Senior Notes due May 2041 (the “2041 Notes,” and collectively with the 2018 Notes,
The Company pays cash interest at an annual rate of 2.625%, on a semi-annual basis on May 15 and November 15 of each year on the 2041 Notes.
The 2041 Notes also have a contingent interest payment provision that may require the Company to pay additional interest, up to 0.60% per year, based on certain thresholds, beginning with the semi-annual interest payment on May 15, 2021, and upon the occurrence of certain events, as outlined in the indenture governing the 2041 Notes.
The Company separately accounts for the liability and equity components of the Convertible Notes.
The initial debt components of the Convertible Notes were valued based on the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature, which equals the effective interest rate on the liability component disclosed in the table below, respectively.
The equity component was initially valued equal to the principle value of the notes, less the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without a conversion feature, which equated to the initial debt discount.
During the quarter ended December 24, 2017, and in the subsequent period through January 26, 2018, the Company received notice of conversion of an additional $227.8 million principal value of Convertible Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending March 25, 2018.
As of December 24, 2017, the warrants associated with the 2018 Notes had not been exercised and remained outstanding.
In conjunction with the convertible note hedge, counterparties agreed to sell to the Company shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the 2018 Notes in full.
The convertible note hedge transactions will be settled in net shares and will terminate upon the earlier of the maturity date or the first day none of the respective notes remain outstanding due to conversion or otherwise.
During the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 the note hedge was partially settled, resulting in the receipt of approximately 367,000 and 2,459,000 shares, respectively.
On March 12, 2015, the Company completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March, 2020 (the “2020 Notes”) and $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March, 2025 (the “2025 Notes”, together with the 2020 Notes, the “Senior Notes”).
The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.75% and 3.80%, on the 2020 Notes and 2025 Notes, respectively, on a semi-annual basis on March 15 and September 15 of each year.
During the year ended June 26, 2016, the Company entered into a series of interest rate contracts hedging the fair value of a portion of the 2025 Notes par value, whereby the Company receives a fixed rate and pays a variable rate based on a certain benchmark interest rate.
Refer to Note 7 for additional information regarding these interest rate contracts.
The Company may redeem the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such series (“par”), plus a “make whole” premium as described in the indenture in respect of the Senior Notes and accrued and unpaid interest before February 15, 2020, for the 2020 Notes and before December 15, 2024, for the 2025 Notes.
The Company may redeem the Senior Notes at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest at any time on or after February 15, 2020, for the 2020 Notes and on or after December 24, 2024, for the 2025 Notes.
In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the indenture, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
On June 7, 2016, The Company completed a public offering of $800 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due June 2021 (the “2021 Notes”, together with the 2020 and 2025 Notes, the “Senior Notes”).
The Company may redeem the 2021 Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such series (“par”), plus a “make whole” premium as described in the indenture in respect to the 2021 Notes and accrued and unpaid interest before May 15, 2021.
The Company may redeem the 2021 Notes at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest at any time on or after May 15, 2021.
In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the indenture, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the 2021 Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the respective note, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
On November 13, 2017, the Company established a new commercial paper program (“the CP Program”) under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1.25 billion.
As of December 24, 2017, borrowings under the CP Program had a weighted-average interest rate of 1.64% with maturities of 30 days or less.
Amounts available under the CP Program may be re-borrowed.
On October 13, 2017, the Company entered into Amendment No.
2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “2nd Amendment”), which amends the Company’s prior unsecured Credit Agreement (as amended by the 2nd Amendment, the “Amended Credit Agreement”).
The Amended Credit Agreement provides for an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is, at the Company’s option, based on (1) a base rate, defined as the greatest of (a) prime rate, (b) Federal Funds rate plus 0.5%, or (c) one-month LIBOR plus 1.0%, plus a spread of 0.0% to 0.5%, or (2) LIBOR multiplied by the statutory rate, plus a spread of 0.9% to 1.5% in each case as the applicable spread is determined based on the rating of the Company’s non-credit enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt.
Principal and any accrued and unpaid interest is due and payable upon maturity.
Additionally, the Company will pay the lenders a quarterly commitment fee that varies based on the Company’s credit rating.
The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains affirmative covenants, negative covenants, financial covenants and events of default.
As of December 24, 2017, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and was in compliance with all financial covenants.
The Company has operating leases regarding certain improved properties in Fremont and Livermore, California (the “Operating Leases”).
The Company was required to maintain cash collateral in an aggregate of approximately $250.0 million in separate interest-bearing accounts as security for the Company’s obligations.
These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 24, 2017.
During the term of the Operating Leases and when the terms of the Operating Leases expire, the property subject to those Operating Leases may be remarketed.
The Company has guaranteed to the lessor that each property will have a certain minimum residual value.
The aggregate guarantee made by the Company under the Operating Leases is generally no more than approximately $220.4 million; however, under certain default circumstances, the guarantee with regard to an Operating Lease may be 100% of the lessor’s aggregate investment in the applicable property, which in no case will exceed $250.0 million, in the aggregate.
The Company has issued certain indemnifications to its lessors for taxes and general liability under some of its agreements.
The Company has entered into certain insurance contracts that are intended to limit its exposure to such indemnifications.
As of December 24, 2017, the Company had not recorded any liability in connection with these indemnifications, as it does not believe that it is probable that any amounts will be paid under these guarantees.
Generally, the Company indemnifies, under pre-determined conditions and limitations, its customers for infringement of third party intellectual property rights by the Company’s products or services.
The Company seeks to limit its liability for such indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the products or services subject to its indemnification obligations.
The Company does not believe that it is probable that any material amounts will be paid under these guarantees.
The Company provides guarantees and standby letters of credit to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated during the ordinary course of business.
As of December 24, 2017, the maximum potential amount of future payments that it could be required to make under these arrangements and letters of credit was $20.6 million.
The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid.
The liability amount is based on actual historical warranty spending activity by type of system, customer, and geographic region, modified for any known differences such as the impact of system reliability improvements.
While the Company is not currently a party to any legal proceedings that it believes material, the Company is either a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that have arisen from time to time in the normal course of business, including intellectual property claims.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
In November 2017, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $2.0 billion of Common Stock; this authorization supplements the remaining balances from any prior authorizations.
These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law.
Repurchases are funded using the Company’s on-shore cash, on-shore cash generation, and available credit facilities.
This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
In addition to the shares repurchased under the Board-authorized repurchase program shown above, during the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, the Company acquired 98 thousand shares at a total cost of $18.4 million and 109 thousand shares at a total cost of $20.2 million, respectively, which the Company withheld through net settlements to cover minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards granted under the Company’s equity compensation plans.
The shares retained by the Company through these net share settlements are not a part of the Board-authorized repurchase program but instead are authorized under the Company’s equity compensation plan.
On November 20, 2017, the Company entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "November 2017 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.0 billion of Common Stock.
The Company took an initial delivery of 3,254,300 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on November 20, 2017.
The total number of shares to be received under the November 2017 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
Final settlement of two of the transactions is expected to be completed no later than February 22, 2018, and final settlement for the remaining transactions is expected to be completed no sooner than March 26, 2018 or no later than May 24, 2018.
On April 19, 2017, the Company entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the “April 2017 ASR”) with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $500 million of Common Stock.
The Company took an initial delivery of approximately 2,570,000 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on April 19, 2017.
The total number of shares received under the April 2017 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
Approximately 780,000 shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $149.16 for the transaction period.
On August 28, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of the outstanding shares of Coventor, Inc. (“Coventor”), a privately-held company that is a provider of simulation and modeling solutions for semiconductor process technology, micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS), and the Internet of Things, for a total purchase consideration of $137.6 million.
The preliminary fair values of net tangible and intangible assets acquired were based on preliminary valuations, and management’s estimates and assumptions are subject to change within the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date).
The primary area that remains open relates to the fair value of intangible assets, certain tangible assets and liabilities assumed and income taxes.
The Company expects to continue to obtain information to assist us in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired during the measurement period.
The operating results of the acquired entity, from the date of acquisition, have been included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and six months ended December 24, 2017.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired.
None of the goodwill recognized is deductible for income tax purposes.
Acquired existing technology represents the fair value of products that have reached technological feasibility and are a part of Coventor’s product offerings and customer relationships represent the fair values of the underlying relationships and agreements with Coventor’s customers.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
No priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry.
The changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities.
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively.
•the dilutive impact of our Convertible Notes (as defined below) and related warrants on our earnings per share.
We have $3.3 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding.
Additionally, we have $1.25 billion available to us in revolving credit arrangements, with an option for us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
We may, in the future, decide to borrow amounts under the revolving credit agreement, or to enter into additional debt arrangements.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
We could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments.
•impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.
Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows, particularly in the United States, to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt.
As a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds.
If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness.
Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders.
Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share.
In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes, or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt.
We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success.
In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements.
objectives, sharing confidential information and intellectual property, sharing value with third parties, and realizing synergies that might have been available in an acquisition but are not available through a joint development project.
Moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next-generation devices.
•a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis.
Similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps.
Outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization.
These locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, and utility interruptions.
Semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line.
We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse.
Non-U.S. sales, as reflected in Part 1 Item 1. Business, accounted for approximately 91%, 92%, and 92% of total revenue in the six months ended December 24, 2017 and fiscal years 2017, and 2016, respectively.
•compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including U.S. and international trade restrictions and sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, environmental, tax, and labor laws;
•our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business.
We are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
However, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and Korean won.
Currently, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses dominated in euro and Korean won.
In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables.
We believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation.
We expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future.
Moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges.
Additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures.
Therefore, we are subject to potential unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in these currencies.
Certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances.
Our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees with the appropriate skills, experiences and competencies.
This is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions.
Our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment.
We periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness.
•Our failure to meet, or violation of, regulatory or other legal obligations, such as the timely publication or filing of financial statements, tax forms and other required communications.
While we have implemented ISO 27001 compliant security procedures and virus protection software, intrusion prevention systems, identity and access control, and emergency recovery processes, and we carefully select our third party providers of information systems, to mitigate risks to the information systems that we rely on, those mitigation and protection systems cannot be guaranteed to be fail-safe and we may still suffer cyber-related incidents.
•dilutive impacts of our Convertible Notes and related warrants.
In the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation.
In addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues.
From time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters.
In such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms.
Protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers.
As part of our strategy to protect our technology, we currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes, and techniques as trade secrets.
Our Board of Directors has declared quarterly dividends since April 2014.
Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and, in the case of dividends, periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us.
