ITEM 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Lam Research is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines. Our products and services are 
designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive devices, storage devices, and networking equipment. 
Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers that make products such as non-volatile memory, DRAM, and logic devices. We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success. Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer.
Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers’ business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple dies or integrated circuits on a wafer. This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps. Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale. Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.
Demand from the Cloud, Internet of Things, and other markets is driving the need for increasingly powerful and cost-efficient semiconductors. At the same time, there are growing technical challenges with traditional scaling. These trends are driving significant inflections in semiconductor manufacturing, such as the increasing importance of vertical 3D scaling strategies as well as multiple patterning to enable shrinks. 
Despite recent semiconductor capital investment volatility, over the longer term, we believe that technology inflections in our industry, including 3D device scaling, multiple patterning, process flow, and advanced packaging chip integration will lead to an increase in our served addressable market for our products and services in deposition, etch, and clean. While there could be continued variability in the near-term, we believe that demand for our products and services will increase faster than overall spending on wafer fabrication equipment, as the proportion of customers’ capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas, and as we continue to gain market share.
In the December 2018 quarter, revenue increased compared to the September 2018 quarter primarily as a result of higher customer demand during the quarter. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the December 2018 quarter remained flat compared to the September 2018 quarter primarily due to higher factory utilization, offset by changes in customer and product mix. Operating expenses in the December 2018 quarter decreased compared to the September 2018 quarter mainly due to decreases in employee benefit expenses, variable compensation and salaries, partially offset by increases in supplies, and rent and repairs. The December 2017 quarter results were negatively impacted by a one-time provisional charge associated with U.S. tax reform.
borrowings, $168 million of dividends paid to stockholders, and $106 million for capital expenditures. Employee headcount as of December 23, 2018, was approximately 10,950. 
Revenue for the December 2018 quarter increased 8% from the September 2018 quarter, reflecting higher customer demand for semiconductor equipment. Revenue for the December 2018 quarter decreased 2% compared to the same prior year period, and decreased 4% in the six months ended December 23, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment.
Our deferred revenue balance at December 23, 2018 decreased to $493 million, as compared to $626 million as of September 23, 2018. Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to customers in Japan, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The estimated future revenue value from shipments to customers in Japan was approximately $262 million as of December 23, 2018, and $454 million as of September 23, 2018.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue remained flat in the December 2018 quarter compared to the September 2018 quarter primarily due to higher factory utilization, offset by changes in customer and product mix. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the December 2018 quarter compared to the December 2017 quarter is primarily due to lower factory utilization and changes in customer and product mix. In the six months ended December 23, 2018, gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower factory utilization and changes in customer and product mix. 
Interest income decreased in the December 2018 quarter compared to the September 2018 and December 2017 quarters as a result of lower cash balances, partially offset by higher yield. Interest income decreased in the six months ended December 23, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 as a result of lower cash balances.
Significant changes in the market value of securities in the portfolio drove the higher losses on assets related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan in the December 2018 quarter compared to the September 2018 and December 2017 quarters.
Foreign exchange fluctuations are primarily due to currency movements against portions of our unhedged balance sheet exposures. 
The increase in the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 23, 2018 compared to the three months ended September 23, 2018 was primarily due to the benefit of the GILTI provisions which are applicable beginning in fiscal year 2019 in the three months ended September 23, 2018, and the impact of the provisional and final adjustments under SAB 118 to the U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings in both the three months ended September 23, 2018 and December 23, 2018.
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 23, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 was primarily due to the reduction of the federal statutory tax rate and the impact of the GILTI provisions which are applicable beginning in fiscal year 2019 in the three and six months ended December 23, 2018, and the impact of the U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings in the three and six months ended December 24, 2017.
The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using an income approach. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.
For other long-lived assets, we routinely consider whether indicators of impairment are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets is less than their carrying value. If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. We recognize an impairment charge to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the asset’s carrying value. The fair value of the asset then becomes the asset’s new carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value. 
Total gross cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments (together comprising total cash and investments) were $3.9 billion at December 23, 2018 compared to $5.2 billion as of June 24, 2018. This decrease was primarily due to Common Stock repurchases in connection with our stock repurchase program. 
Under certain circumstances, our 2041 Notes may be converted and settled in cash and shares of our Common Stock. During the six months ended December 23, 2018, approximately $85.4 million principal value of convertible 2041 Notes were converted and in the subsequent period through January 28, 2019, we received notice of conversion of an additional $29 million principal value of 2041 Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending March 31, 2019. We expect to have sufficient levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments to fund the near-term settlement of these Convertible Notes.
During the December 2017 quarter, a one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, estimated at $991 million, was recognized associated with the December 2017 U.S. tax reform. This value is identified as final in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the period ended December 23, 2018. The final amount is now $868.4 million. The Company elected to pay the one-time transition tax over a period of eight years with 8% of the transition tax to be paid each September 15 for years 2018 through 2022, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid each September 15 for years 2023 through 2025.
ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
In November 2018, the Board of Directors authorized management to repurchase up to an additional $5.0 billion of Common Stock on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate. These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law. This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Funding for this repurchase program may be through a combination of cash on hand, cash generation, and borrowings. 
On August 15, 2018, we entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "August 2018 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.4 billion of Common Stock. We took an initial delivery of approximately 5.8 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on 
August 14, 2018. The total number of shares received under the August 2018 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement of two of the agreements occurred during the quarter ended December 23, 2018. Approximately 1.7 million shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $148.72 for the transaction period. The remaining two agreements settled in January 2019, resulting in the receipt of approximately 1.8 million additional shares, which yielded a weighted-average share price of approximately $146.00 for the transaction period. 
