We accrue for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
No priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry.
The variability in our customers’ investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors, including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers’ ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices.
The changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities.
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
Especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes.
Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively.
•the dilutive impact of our Convertible Notes (as defined below) and related warrants on our earnings per share.
We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable.
We have $3.3 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding.
Additionally, we have $1.25 billion available to us in revolving credit arrangements, with an option for us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
We may, in the future, decide to borrow amounts under the revolving credit agreement, or to enter into additional debt arrangements.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
We could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments.
•impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.
Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows, particularly in the United States, to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt.
As a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds.
If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms.
If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness.
Conversion of our Convertible Notes and the exercise of the related warrants may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share.
The number of shares of our Common Stock into which the Convertible Notes are convertible and for which related warrants are exercisable for may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders.
Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders.
Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share.
The price of our Common Stock could also be affected by sales of our Common Stock by investors who view the Convertible Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and also by hedging activity that may develop involving our Common Stock by holders of the Convertible Notes.
In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes, or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt.
We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success.
Rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes.
We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products.
If new products or existing products have reliability, quality, design, or safety problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses.
We may be unable to develop and manufacture products successfully, or products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace.
For more than 25 years, the primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips.
In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements.
objectives, sharing confidential information and intellectual property, sharing value with third parties, and realizing synergies that might have been available in an acquisition but are not available through a joint development project.
We must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products and certain jointly developed technologies may be subject to restrictions on our ability to share that technology with other customers, which could limit our market for products incorporating those technologies.
Moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next-generation devices.
•a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis.
Similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps.
These actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results.
Outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization.
unable to meet our requirements or expectation due to their independent business decisions or force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect.
In some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers.
Where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances.
These locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, and utility interruptions.
Semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line.
We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse.
Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment for the same product line application.
Non-U.S. sales, as reflected in Part 1 Item 1. Business, accounted for approximately 91%, 92%, and 92% of total revenue in the six months ended December 24, 2017 and fiscal years 2017, and 2016, respectively.
We expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue in future years.
•compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including U.S. and international trade restrictions and sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, environmental, tax, and labor laws;
•our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business.
We are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
The majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars.
However, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and Korean won.
Currently, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses dominated in euro and Korean won.
In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables.
We believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation.
We expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future.
However, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over or under hedged on any given transaction.
Moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges.
Additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures.
Therefore, we are subject to potential unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in these currencies.
The magnitude of our overseas business also affects where our cash is generated.
Certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances.
Since the majority of our cash is generated outside of the United States, this may impact certain business decisions and adversely affect business outcomes.
Our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees with the appropriate skills, experiences and competencies.
This is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions.
Our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment.
We periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness.
•Our failure to meet, or violation of, regulatory or other legal obligations, such as the timely publication or filing of financial statements, tax forms and other required communications.
While we have implemented ISO 27001 compliant security procedures and virus protection software, intrusion prevention systems, identity and access control, and emergency recovery processes, and we carefully select our third party providers of information systems, to mitigate risks to the information systems that we rely on, those mitigation and protection systems cannot be guaranteed to be fail-safe and we may still suffer cyber-related incidents.
assets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities.
These factors could affect our profitability.
•dilutive impacts of our Convertible Notes and related warrants.
Historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our Common Stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors.
In the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation.
In addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues.
We also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships.
In addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and members of our Board of Directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to us.
From time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters.
In such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms.
Moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles.
Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights, and trade secret protection.
Protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers.
As part of our strategy to protect our technology, we currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes, and techniques as trade secrets.
However, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the U.S. or foreign governments issue to us; these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications; or we may lose trade secret protection over valuable information due to the intentional or unintentional actions or omissions of third parties, of ours, or even of our own employees.
The rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents, pending patent applications, or trade secrets may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages.
Moreover, because we determine the jurisdictions in which to file patents at the time of filing, we may not have adequate protection in the future based on such previous decisions.
Our Board of Directors has declared quarterly dividends since April 2014.
Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and, in the case of dividends, periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us.
Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model.
Our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts.
A reduction or suspension in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on the price of our Common Stock.
ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law.
Repurchases will be funded using our on-shore cash, on-shore cash generation, and available credit facilities.
This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
We took an initial delivery of 3,254,300 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on November 20, 2017.
The total number of shares to be received under the November 2017 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
Final settlement of two of the transactions is expected to be completed no later than February 22, 2018, and final settlement for the remaining transactions is expected to be completed no sooner than March 26, 2018 or no later than May 24, 2018.
On April 19, 2017, we entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the “April 2017 ASR”) with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $500 million of Common Stock.
We took an initial delivery of approximately 2,570,000 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on April 19, 2017.
The total number of shares received under the April 2017 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
Approximately 780,000 shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $149.16 for the transaction period.
