We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements. We prefer markets in which we can establish a strong presence and achieve high gross margins. We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations. Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators. Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries. The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry. Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries. Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments. Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products. 
In October 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock, payable on December 17, 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on November 30, 2018.  
We issue shares in connection with stock-based compensation pursuant to the Mesa Laboratories, Inc. 2014 Equity Plan (the “2014 Equity Plan”). For the purposes of counting the shares remaining as available under the 2014 Incentive Plan, each share issuable pursuant to outstanding full value awards, such as RSUs and PSUs, counts as five shares issued, whereas each share underlying a stock option counts as one share issued. Under the 2014 Equity Plan, 1,100,000 shares of common stock have been authorized and reserved for eligible participants, of which 595,729 shares were available for future grants as of September 30, 2018.  
Item 1.  Legal Proceedings 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share (“diluted EPS”) is computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that it includes the potential dilution that could occur if dilutive securities were exercised. Potentially dilutive securities include common shares related to stock options and non-vested stock awards (collectively “stock awards”). Stock awards are excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS in the event that they are subject to performance conditions or are antidilutive. 
Note 2. Revenue Recognition 
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we granted restricted stock units (“RSUs”) on 15,919 shares of our common stock to eligible employees. The weighted average grant date fair value of the RSUs was $151.54 per share. The RSUs generally vest in equal installments on the anniversary of the grant date over a period of five years. During the six months ended September 30, 2018, 1,720 RSUs vested, and 185 RSUs were forfeited or cancelled. 
On March 1, 2017, we entered into a five-year agreement (the “Credit Facility”) for an $80,000 revolving line of credit (“Line of Credit”), a $20,000 term loan (“Term Loan”) and up to $2,500 of letters of credit with a banking syndicate of four banks. In addition, the Credit Facility provides a post-closing accordion feature which allows for the Company to request to increase the Line of Credit or Term Loan up to an additional $100,000. 
Our contracts have varying payment terms and conditions. Some customers prepay for services, resulting in unearned revenues or customer deposits, called contract liabilities, which are included within other accrued expenses and unearned revenues in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Contract assets would exist when sales are recorded (i.e. the control of the goods or services has been transferred to the customer), but customer payment is contingent on a future event besides the passage of time (such as satisfaction of additional performance obligations). We do not have any contract assets. Unbilled receivables, which are not classified as contract assets, represent arrangements in which sales have been recorded prior to billing and right to payment is unconditional. 
Note 6. Stock-Based Compensation  Cold Chain Packaging revenues decreased 11 percent and increased 24 percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as a result of changes in the order rate of the division’s largest customer. During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the customer’s order rate was higher than usual, resulting in organic growth for the six months ended September 30, 2018. The higher-than-usual order rate was not sustained in the second quarter, resulting in organic growth declines for the three months ended September 30, 2018.  
Selling expense is driven primarily by labor costs, including salaries and commissions; accordingly, it may vary with sales levels. Selling expense for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 decreased 21 percent and 26 percent, respectively, primarily due to timing of the reduction and replacement of selling personnel. As a percentage of revenues, selling expense was seven percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to 10 percent and 11 percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. We plan to continue to strategically reinvest in sales and marketing resources in an effort to further increase organic revenues growth. 
Cold Chain Monitoring revenues decreased six percent and increased two percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. Revenues in this division fluctuate quarter over quarter due to the timing of performance obligations and the nature and timing of orders and installations within any given quarter. 
Sterilization and Disinfection Control gross profit margin percentage increased for both the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 primarily as a result of $291 and $353 of moving expenses related to the Bozeman facility that were incurred during the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. Excluding the impact of the moving expenses, gross margin percentage for both periods was essentially flat as compared to the prior year. 
Our strategic objectives include growth both organically and through further acquisitions. During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations). 
Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin decreased during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 primarily as a result of increased sales volumes related to a large customer contract containing lower-than-standard contractual pricing. Additionally, we experienced significantly higher costs on certain commodities during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 than in previous periods. We are currently implementing a commercial initiative to pass some of these costs increases on to our customers. Even if we are successful with this initiative, we expect that our Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin percentage will continue to be substantially lower than the historical results of our other segments due to the nature of these products. 
Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 primarily due to efficiency gains as well as a one-time incremental inventory reserve charge of $216 recorded in the six months ended September 30, 2017. Item 1.  Legal Proceedings 