We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements. We prefer markets in which we can establish a strong presence and achieve high gross margins. We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations. Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators. Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries. The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry. Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries. Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments. Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products. 
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we granted non-qualified stock options (“NQSOs”) on 25,544 shares of common stock to eligible employees. The weighted-average grant date fair value of the NQSOs was $53.93 per share with a weighted average exercise price of $144.65 per share based on the closing price of the common stock on the date of grant. The NQSOs generally vest in equal installments on the anniversary of the grant date over a period of five years. 
In January 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock, payable on March 15, 2019, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 28, 2019. 
Item 1.  Legal Proceedings 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share (“diluted EPS”) is computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that it includes the potential dilution that could occur if dilutive securities were exercised. Potentially dilutive securities include common shares related to stock options and non-vested stock awards (collectively “stock awards”). Stock awards are excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS in the event that they are subject to performance conditions or are antidilutive. 
Note 2. Revenue Recognition 
On March 1, 2017, we entered into a five-year agreement (the “Credit Facility”) for an $80,000 revolving line of credit (“Line of Credit”), a $20,000 term loan (“Term Loan”) and up to $2,500 of letters of credit with a banking syndicate of four banks. In addition, the Credit Facility provides a post-closing accordion feature which allows for the Company to request to increase the Line of Credit or Term Loan up to an additional $100,000. 
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we completed the purchase of Point Six Wireless, LLC. We made an initial allocation of the purchase price at the date of acquisition based on our understanding of the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities. We obtained the information to make the allocation during due diligence and through the use of other information available to us. In the months after closing, we will obtain additional information about the assets and liabilities acquired, including asset appraisals, and we will refine the estimates of the fair value to more accurately allocate the purchase price. 
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we performed an impairment analysis on our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment as the segment’s financial results continued to fall short of expectations. Specifically, rising commodity costs used in the segment’s principal product have increased over the past nine months, eroding the gross profit margin of the segment. We determined that the long-lived assets and goodwill associated with our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment were impaired and we recognized non-cash impairment charge of $1,028 on goodwill and $2,641 on long-lived assets, in impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. The remaining goodwill and intangible assets associated with this segment are $300 and $809, respectively as of December 31, 2018. The fair value of the impaired assets was determined using Level 3 inputs (unobservable inputs) based on a discounted cash flow method.    
Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies Selling expense is driven primarily by labor costs, including salaries and commissions; accordingly, it may vary with sales levels. Selling expense increased six percent for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and decreased 17 percent for the nine months ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to timing of the reduction and replacement of selling personnel. As a percentage of revenues, selling expense was eight percent and seven percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, as compared to eight percent and ten percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively. We plan to continue to strategically reinvest in sales and marketing resources in an effort to further increase organic revenues growth. 
Cold Chain Packaging revenues increased 29 percent and 26 percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, as a result of the normalization in the order rate of the division’s largest customer.  
Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased during the three months ended December 31, 2018 primarily due to $1,700 of inventory reserve expense recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2017; excluding the impact of the reserve in the comparable period, gross margin percentage decreased as a result of timing of orders and unfavorable product mix variations. Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to $1,916 of inventory reserve expense recorded in the nine months ended December 31, 2017. Excluding the impact of the inventory reserve charge in the comparable period, gross profit margin percentage was flat as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2017. 
Cold Chain Monitoring revenues increased 15 percent and six percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, primarily as a result of organic revenues growth. Revenues in this division fluctuate quarter over quarter due to the timing of performance obligations and the nature and timing of orders and installations within any given quarter. 
Sterilization and Disinfection Control gross profit margin percentage increased for both the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 primarily as a result of $150 and $503 of moving expenses related to the Bozeman facility that were incurred during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively. Excluding the impact of the moving expenses, gross margin percentage for both periods was essentially flat as compared to the prior year. 
Research and development expense is predominantly comprised of labor costs and third-party consultants. Research and development expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased 14 percent and for the nine months ended December 31, 2018, decreased nine percent, due to streamlining the necessary engineers, materials, and supplies required to support existing businesses in the prior year. During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we began to make incremental investments in research and development to enhance existing products. 
Our strategic objectives include growth both organically and through further acquisitions. During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations), which was completed as of December 31, 2018. Item 1.  Legal Proceedings 