During the nine months ended  December 31, 2017, revenues in our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment decreased significantly as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to a significant decrease in revenues from our largest customer and the loss of the business of one of our larger customers. During the three months ended  December 31, 2017 we completed a detailed review of the cold chain packaging business and concluded that long and difficult sales-cycles associated with this product set, when coupled with higher than previously contemplated costs for operating and expanding the necessary infrastructure to support revenues growth have resulted in a forecast of lower than expected revenues, gross margin percentages and overall profitability as compared to our original model for this business. Based on these facts, we concluded that we had a triggering event requiring assessment of impairment for certain of our long-lived assets associated with the Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment. As a result, we reviewed the long-lived assets associated with this reporting segment and recorded a $13,819,000 impairment charge related to goodwill, which is included in impairment loss on goodwill on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended  December 31, 2017. The impairment loss was measured using a market approach utilizing an EBITA multiple model. The remaining goodwill and intangible assets associated with this segment are $1,434,000 and $4,340,000, respectively as of  December 31, 2017.   
Our effective income tax rate was (5.3) percent and 16.2 percent for the three months ended  December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and (18.0) percent and 18.6 percent for the nine months ended  December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended  December 31, 2017 differed from the statutory federal rate of 30.9 percent primarily due to the impact of the impairment of non-deductible goodwill, the TCJA, share-based payment awards for employees (which was significant for the nine months ended  December 31, 2017), state income taxes, domestic manufacturing deductions and foreign rate differential.  
Since the initial payment, the revenues for these products significantly increased and as a result, during the year ended  March 31, 2017 we recorded an additional $450,000 accrual (which was paid in our third quarter ending  December 31, 2016). During the three months ended  June 30, 2017 revenues continued to increase and after revising our forecast for the process challenge device (“PCD”) product revenues through the end of the earn-out period, we recorded an additional $300,000 accrual, which is included in other income, net in the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended  December 31, 2017. We paid the remaining contingent consideration due of $450,000 in  November 2017.   
Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
Mesa Laboratories, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the State of Colorado on  March 26, 1982. The terms “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa” are used in this report to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which our various businesses are conducted. We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services, which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements. We prefer markets where we can establish a strong presence and achieve high gross margins. We are organized into four divisions across ten physical locations. Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene and environmental air sampling industries. Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (formerly named the Biological Indicators Division) provides testing services, along with the manufacturing and marketing of both biological and cleaning indicators, and the marketing of chemical indicators used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device and pharmaceutical industries. Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies and other laboratory and industrial environments. Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials and phase-change products to control temperature during transport. 
We rely on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers and other business partners), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities. These systems may be damaged, disrupted or shut down due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes or other unforeseen events, and in any such circumstances our system redundancy and other disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate. In addition, security breaches of our systems (or the systems of our customers, suppliers or other business partners) could result in the misappropriation, destruction or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers. Like most multinational corporations, our information technology systems have been subject to computer viruses, malicious codes, unauthorized access and other cyber-attacks and we expect the sophistication and frequency of such attacks to continue to increase. Any of the attacks, breaches or other disruptions or damage described above could interrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers’ intellectual property and trade secrets, damage customer and business partner relationships and our reputation or result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws and increased costs for security and remediation, each of which could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial statements. 
No foreign country exceeds 10 percent of total revenues.   General and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased primarily due to acquisition related and amortization expenses, partially offset by a decrease in personnel expenses. 
Cold Chain Monitoring revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased primarily due to organic growth of three percent and the FreshLoc Acquisition. Cold Chain Monitoring revenues for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased primarily due to the FreshLoc Acquisition, partially offset by organic decreases of four percent. Revenues in this division fluctuate quarter over quarter due to the timing of customer acceptance of certain installations and the nature and timing of orders within any given quarter. 
Sterilization and Disinfection Control revenues for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased primarily due to the 2018 Acquisitions and organic growth of seven and nine percent, respectively which was achieved through existing customers, expansion into new markets, price increases and the continued strengthening of the Euro.  
Historically selling expense approximates 10 percent to 12 percent of revenues. 
Selling expense for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 decreased primarily due to reductions of selling personnel, trade show activities and outside commissions. As a percentage of revenues, selling expense was eight and 10 percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively as compared to 10 and 11 percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016. 
General and administrative expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased primarily due to increased personnel, employee moving, acquisition related and amortization expenses, partially offset by decreases in professional services expenses. 
Overall revenues declined one percent, while organic revenues declined four percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2017, resulting from organic decreases of nine and 36 percent from the Instruments and Cold Chain Packaging Divisions, respectively, partially offset by increases of seven and three percent for the Sterilization and Disinfection Control and Cold Chain Monitoring Divisions, respectively. Overall revenues were flat, while organic revenues declined two percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 resulting from organic decreases of four, four and 36 percent from the Instruments, Cold Chain Monitoring and Cold Chain Packaging Divisions, respectively, partially offset by an increase of nine percent for the Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division. 
Our strategic objectives include growth both organically and through further acquisitions. During the year ending March 31, 2018, we continue to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including the relocation of our Omaha, Traverse City and old Bozeman manufacturing facilities into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams and the rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations).  
Research and development expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 decreased due to a streamlining of the necessary engineers and materials and supplies required to support existing businesses during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017. Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
We rely on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers and other business partners), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities. These systems may be damaged, disrupted or shut down due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes or other unforeseen events, and in any such circumstances our system redundancy and other disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate. In addition, security breaches of our systems (or the systems of our customers, suppliers or other business partners) could result in the misappropriation, destruction or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers. Like most multinational corporations, our information technology systems have been subject to computer viruses, malicious codes, unauthorized access and other cyber-attacks and we expect the sophistication and frequency of such attacks to continue to increase. Any of the attacks, breaches or other disruptions or damage described above could interrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers’ intellectual property and trade secrets, damage customer and business partner relationships and our reputation or result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws and increased costs for security and remediation, each of which could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial statements. 