item1.txt
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business.
On June 29, 2018, the Company and all the Lenders entered into the Second Amendment to our Credit Agreement ("Second Amended Credit Agreement" or "Second Amendment") in order to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility.
The Company would have defaulted the minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and certain other covenants as defined by the Amended Credit Agreement had these defaults not been waived under the Second Amendment.
As part of the Company’s review of its strategic alternatives, the Company agreed under the Second Amended Credit Agreement to pursue the sale of its Federal Business (as defined in Note 6).
The Company entered into an executed purchase agreement with respect to the sale of the Federal Business on August 17, 2018 which is expected to close on or before August 31, 2018.
The Company believes the expected net proceeds from the sale of the Federal Business will enable the Company to take further steps to generate additional liquidity, including entering into a transaction, selling additional assets or businesses, or obtaining alternative financing, as well as making changes to the overall cost structure of the business.
Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenues in a manner that best depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers for amounts that reflect the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
These maintenance services are generally pre-billed and are recorded in deferred revenue within the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognized into revenues over the service period.
As of April 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and subsequent Updates (collectively, "ASC 606" or "the standard") using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
The adoption of ASC 606 represents a change in accounting principle that will more closely align revenue recognition with the delivery of the Company's services and will provide financial statement readers with enhanced disclosures.
Companies must determine, at contract inception, whether control of a good or service transfers to a customer over time or at a point in time.
The Company employs point in time revenue recognition to our Products revenues when control of these products transfer to our customers, which generally occurs upon shipment from the Company's location.
While it is our standard business practice to control products and services before these products and services are transferred to customers, and thus act as the principal in arrangements, there are certain arrangements in which the Company acts as an agent whereby revenues are recognized for the amounts into which we expect to be entitled to when our performance obligations as the agent are satisfied, which has historically been at a point in time.
The Company employs over time revenue recognition to our installation projects either on a cost-to-cost input method or a time and materials input method, depending on the nature and pricing structure of the arrangement.
For installation projects, the timing of when payments are due varies by contract, but is often based on certain milestones being met which will not always coincide with the timing in which our performance obligations are satisfied; this results in the costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings and billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings accounts as reported within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Revenues recognized in the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, as a result of changes in estimates under the cost-to-cost input method or otherwise, were not significant.
Revenues related to remaining unsatisfied performance obligations from open contracts that have not yet been recognized through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 are $302,397, $157,438 of which is expected to be recognized in the next six months.
Costs in excess of billings decreased $5,350 as a result of as a result of changes related to customer projects in the North America commercial services business as well as due to the ASC 606 adjustment to best depict the Company's performance on projects under the cost-to-cost input method, as described above.
Deferred revenue, including the long-term portion which is included in Other liabilities within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets, increased $1,358 as a result of deferral of revenues associated with certain extended warranties under ASC 606, partially offset by changes related to customer maintenance contracts in the North America commercial services business.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $15,872 and $7,601 that was included in deferred revenue and billings in excess of costs at March 31, 2018, respectively.
The Company has taken the practical expedient as outlined in ASC 606-10-65-1(f)(4) which aggregates the effect to the opening balance sheet of all contract modifications that occur through the adoption date.
While the Company has incremental commission costs associated with contracts greater than one year in duration, these amounts earned for the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 were not significant.
The Company also incurs incremental costs to fulfill contracts, which are capitalized and amortized over the associated contract lives; however, these amounts for the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 were not significant.
The Amended Credit Agreement contains a minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and a provision requiring the Company to repay revolving credit loans with any excess cash.
The ability of the Company to make dividends or other distributions (including stock repurchases other than up to a limited dollar amount for tax payments from vested equity awards) has been eliminated.
On June 29, 2018, the Company and certain direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company (collectively, the “Guarantors” and together with the Company, the “Loan Parties”) entered into a Second Amendment (the “Second Amended Credit Agreement” or the “Second Amendment”) with PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent (the “Agent”), and certain other lenders party thereto (together with the Agent, the “Lenders”) to amend the Credit Agreement entered into among the Loan Parties, the Agent and the Lenders on May 9, 2016 (as amended by the Amendment and Joinder Agreement, dated August 9, 2017, the “Amended Credit Agreement,” and as further amended by the “Second Amended Credit Agreement”).
The borrowings under the LIFO Facility will be used to finance the Company’s cash flow needs, subject to an approved budget and certain variance restrictions, including payments to vendors to allow the Company to operate in the ordinary course of its business.
The Company entered into the Second Amendment to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility.
The Company would have defaulted the minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and certain other covenants as defined by the Amended Credit Agreement had these defaults not been waived under the Second Amendment.
The Company’s obligations under the Second Amended Credit Agreement continue to be secured by substantially all of the personal property assets of the Company and all of the Company’s direct and indirect owned subsidiaries that are incorporated (or organized) under the laws of the District of Columbia or under the laws of any state or commonwealth of the United States (other than BBOX Holdings Mexico LLC).
In addition, under the Second Amendment, the Company’s obligations are required to be secured by additional collateral, including (i) a first-priority pledge of all of the capital stock of each existing and subsequently acquired or organized subsidiary of the Loan Parties not pledged under the Credit Agreement, with certain exceptions; and (ii) mortgages over certain material real property of the Loan Parties located in the U.S. The Company is also required to cause the execution of deposit account control agreements with respect to certain U.S. bank accounts of the Loan Parties and to deliver to the Agent executed assignment agreements and forms of notice of assignment with respect to certain federal government contracts.
The Company is exposed to certain market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The fair value of the Company’s derivatives reflects this credit risk.
Once the forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings, the effective portion of any related gains or losses on the cash flow hedge is reclassified from AOCI to the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Since the inception of its repurchase programs beginning in April 1999 and through June 30, 2018, the Company has repurchased 11,392,851 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $408,621, or an average purchase price per share of $35.87.
Under the Second Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable.
The Company provides for income taxes at the end of each interim period based on the estimated effective tax rate adjusted for certain discrete items for the full fiscal year.
As of June 30, 2018, there was $1,500 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.6 years.
Performance share awards are subject to one of the performance goals - the Company's Relative Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") Ranking or cumulative Adjusted EBITDA - each over a three-year period.
The Company’s Relative TSR Ranking metric is based on the three-year cumulative return to stockholders from the change in stock price and dividends paid between the starting and ending dates.
The fair value of performance share awards (subject to cumulative Adjusted EBITDA) is determined based on the number of performance shares granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant.
The fair value of performance share awards (subject to the Company’s Relative TSR Ranking) is estimated on the grant date using the Monte-Carlo simulation valuation method.
The total fair value of shares that vested during the three-months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $0 and $0, respectively, as there were no payouts because certain performance obligations were not met.
As of June 30, 2018, there was $534 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested performance share awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.6 years.
The Company conducts business globally and is managed on a geographic-service type basis consisting of four operating segments which are (i) North America Products, (ii) North America Services, (iii) International Products and (iv) International Services.
In connection with the Amended Credit Agreement disclosed in Note 6, the Company is required to make payments of $8,750 on its term loan over the next 12 months.
Correspondingly, the Company expects its long-term payments (greater than 1 year) under the credit facility to decrease by $8,750.
The restructuring liability amount shown above is classified as a current liability under other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets for the period ended June 30, 2018.


item2.txt
The discussion and analysis for the three-months and three-months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 as set forth below in this Part I, Item 2 should be read in conjunction with the response to Part I, Item 1 of this report and the consolidated financial statements of Black Box Corporation ("Black Box," the "Company," "we" or "our"), including the related notes, and "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 (the "Form 10-K").
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
On June 29, 2018, the Company and certain direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company (collectively, the “Guarantors” and together with the Company, the “Loan Parties”) entered into a Second Amendment (the “Second Amended Credit Agreement” or the “Second Amendment”) with PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent (the “Agent”), and certain other lenders party thereto (together with the Agent, the “Lenders”) to amend the Credit Agreement entered into among the Loan Parties, the Agent and the Lenders on May 9, 2016 (as amended by the Amendment and Joinder Agreement, dated August 9, 2017, the “Amended Credit Agreement,” and as further amended by the “Second Amended Credit Agreement”).
The borrowings under the LIFO Facility will be used to finance the Company’s cash flow needs, subject to an approved budget and certain variance restrictions, including payments to vendors to allow the Company to operate in the ordinary course of its business.
The Company entered into the Second Amendment to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility.
The Company would have defaulted the minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and certain other covenants as defined by the Amended Credit Agreement had these defaults not been waived under the Second Amendment.
While the entry into a definitive agreement for the sale of the Federal Business is a significant milestone for Black Box, the Company also remains focused on exploring all other strategic alternatives with the assistance of Raymond James and Jones Day to address its liquidity needs including, among others, refinancing, restructuring and the sale of some or all of the remaining businesses of the Company.
At June 30, 2018, the Company's total backlog, which relates primarily to Services, was $323,460, of which $228,405 is expected to be completed within the next twelve months.
Services revenues were $159,247, an increase of 0.3% from $158,756 in the same period last year primarily due to a decrease in our federal business's revenues offset by a realignment of several international entities between Products and Services as a result of changes in our management structure in the second quarter of Fiscal 2018.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the leverage ratio covenant was suspended until the second quarter of Fiscal 2019.
The Amended Credit Agreement contained a minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and a provision requiring the Company to repay revolving credit loans with any excess cash.
On June 29, 2018, the Company and the Loan Parties entered into a Second Amendment with the Lenders to amend the Credit Agreement entered into on May 9, 2016 (as amended by Amended Credit Agreement and as further amended by the Second Amended Credit Agreement).
The Second Amended Credit Agreement established a new LIFO Facility in an amount not to exceed $10,000.
The borrowings under the LIFO Facility will be used to finance the Company’s cash flow needs, subject to an approved budget and certain variance restrictions, including payments to vendors to allow the Company to operate in the ordinary course of its business.
The Company entered into the Second Amendment to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility.
As part of the Company’s review of its alternatives, the Company has agreed under the Second Amended Credit Agreement to pursue the sale of its Federal Business.
Under the Second Amendment, the Company must meet certain milestone dates leading to the consummation of the Sale Transaction, including the delivery of an executed purchase agreement in respect of the Sale Transaction on or before July 31, 2018, and the consummation of the Sale Transaction on or before August 31, 2018.
The Company entered into an executed purchase agreement with respect to the sale of the Federal Business on August 17, 2018 which is expected to close on or before August 31, 2018.
All net cash proceeds of the Sale Transaction will first be used to pay down loans outstanding under the LIFO Facility, and after, repayment of such loans, the Company’s other indebtedness under the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
The Second Amended Credit Agreement also revised the Company’s covenants under the Amended Credit Agreement to, among other things, (i) suspend the leverage ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio covenants until December 15, 2018; (ii) modify the minimum consolidated EBITDA covenant to require that the Company’s minimum consolidated EBITDA for the three fiscal month period ending on the close of each fiscal month equal or exceed (i) negative $3,000 for the fiscal months ending June 30, 2018, July 31, 2018 and August 31, 2018, and (ii) negative $3,500 for the fiscal months ending September 30, 2018 and thereafter; (iii) reduce the sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit to $10,000; (iv) require periodic delivery of updated budgets and budget variance reports to the Agent and compliance with certain disbursement and net cash flow variance thresholds; (v) restrict the incurrence of expenses related to implementation of the ERP system; (vii) require that the net cash proceeds from certain asset sales and certain excess cash be used to prepay the Company’s obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement; and (viii) require the repatriation to the Loan Parties of cash on hand above a certain amount maintained by certain excluded foreign subsidiaries of the Loan Parties and restrict the transfer of assets by the Loan Parties (other than inventory in the course of ordinary business) to such excluded foreign subsidiaries unless accounted for in the budget.
The Company’s obligations under the Second Amended Credit Agreement continue to be secured by substantially all of the personal property assets of the Company and all of the Company’s direct and indirect owned subsidiaries that are incorporated (or organized) under the laws of the District of Columbia or under the laws of any state or commonwealth of the United States (other than BBOX Holdings Mexico LLC).
In addition, under the Second Amendment, the Company’s obligations are required to be secured by additional collateral, including (i) a first-priority pledge of all of the capital stock of each existing and subsequently acquired or organized subsidiary of the Loan Parties not pledged under the Credit Agreement, with certain exceptions; and (ii) mortgages over certain material real property of the Loan Parties located in the U.S. The Company is also required to cause the execution of deposit account control agreements with respect to certain U.S. bank accounts of the Loan Parties and to deliver to the Agent executed assignment agreements and forms of notice of assignment with respect to certain federal government contracts.
The Company made investments of $528 compared to $1,097 in the same period last year which primarily related to information technology infrastructure, computer hardware and service vehicles.
The Company did not make any discretionary investments in the form of common stock repurchases in the current period nor in the same period last year.
The Company withheld shares in the amount of $112, compared to $393 in the prior year, to satisfy employee income taxes due as a result of the vesting of certain restricted stock units.
Under the Second Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable.
The Company is no longer permitted to pay dividends under the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
This restriction is in effect until May 9, 2021, the termination date of the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
On June 29, 2018, the Company and certain Banks entered into a Second Amended Credit Agreement.


item3.txt
As of June 30, 2018, the Company had open foreign currency contracts in Australian and Canadian dollars, Danish krone, Euros, Mexican pesos, Norwegian kroner, British pounds sterling, Swedish krona, Swiss francs and Japanese yen.
The open contracts have contract rates ranging from 1.27 to 1.38 Australian dollar, 1.29 to 1.34 Canadian dollar, 5.96 to 5.96 Danish krone, 0.80 to 0.86 Euro, 19.26 to 19.26 Mexican peso, 7.70 to 8.28 Norwegian kroner, 0.71 to 0.72 British pound sterling, 8.05 to 9.10 Swedish krona, 0.92 to 1.01 Swiss franc and 105.34 to 112.90 Japanese yen, all per U.S. dollar.


item4.txt
Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), for the Company.
Based upon this assessment, Management has concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of June 30, 2018 to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed or submitted by it under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to Management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


