item1.txt
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
References herein to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business.
There have been no accounting pronouncements adopted during Fiscal 2018 that have had a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
The Company has established an implementation team that has and will continue to review 1) contract terms and existing accounting policies to determine the financial impact of the standard, 2) data availability and system reports to meet the additional disclosure requirements of the standard, and 3) the control environment and internal processes to ensure the appropriate controls are in place.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the leverage ratio covenant is suspended until the second quarter of Fiscal 2019.
The Amended Credit Agreement contains a minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and a provision requiring the Company to repay revolving credit loans with any excess cash.
The ability of the Company to make dividends or other distributions (including stock repurchases other than up to a limited dollar amount for tax payments from vested equity awards) has been eliminated.
Our Amended Credit Agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019.
The Company is exposed to certain market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The fair value of the Company’s derivatives reflects this credit risk.
Once the forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings, the effective portion of any related gains or losses on the cash flow hedge is reclassified from AOCI to the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include non-financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination.
Since the inception of its repurchase programs beginning in April 1999 and through December 31, 2017, the Company has repurchased 11,392,851 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $408,621, or an average purchase price per share of $35.87.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable.
The Company expects to use the funds that were previously available for stock repurchases to supplement spending for our previously announced U.S.-based ERP project and to develop and implement growth initiatives for the Company, both of which we believe will create long-term shareholder value.
The Company provides for income taxes at the end of each interim period based on the estimated effective tax rate adjusted for certain discrete items for the full fiscal year.
Cumulative adjustments to the Company's estimate are recorded in the interim period in which a change in the estimated annual effective rate is determined.
As of December 31, 2017, the Incentive Plan is authorized to issue stock options, restricted stock units and performance shares, among other types of awards, for up to 6,498,331 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "common stock").
The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $2.48 and $3.74, respectively.
As of December 31, 2017, there was $950 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.
The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of restricted stock units granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant.
The total fair value of shares that vested during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $1,902 and $2,039, respectively.
As of December 31, 2017, there was $2,480 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years.
Performance share awards are subject to one of the performance goals - the Company's Relative Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") Ranking or cumulative Adjusted EBITDA - each over a three-year period.
The Company’s Relative TSR Ranking metric is based on the three-year cumulative return to stockholders from the change in stock price and dividends paid between the starting and ending dates.
The fair value of performance share awards (subject to cumulative Adjusted EBITDA) is determined based on the number of performance shares granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant.
The fair value of performance share awards (subject to the Company’s Relative TSR Ranking) is estimated on the grant date using the Monte-Carlo simulation valuation method which includes the following weighted-average assumptions.
The total fair value of shares that vested during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $0 and $0, respectively, as there were no payouts because certain performance obligations were not met.
As of December 31, 2017, there was $1,355 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested performance share awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.
There were 1,872,446 and 1,165,620 non-dilutive equity awards outstanding for the three-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 1,808,928 and 1,202,159 non-dilutive equity awards outstanding for the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, that are not included in the corresponding period Weighted-average common shares outstanding (diluted) computation.
In connection with the Amended Credit Agreement disclosed in Note 5, the Company is required to make payments of $6,250 on its term loan over the next 12 months.
Correspondingly, the Company expects its long-term payments (greater than 1 year) under the credit facility to decrease by $6,250.
Of the $3,877 above, $3,829 is classified as a current liability under Other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets for the period ended December 31, 2017.
Our amended credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019.
If we fail to meet such minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant, the lenders would have the ability to exercise all of their legal and contractual remedies for default including, among others, the right to cease extending credit under the credit facility, to declare all outstanding obligations under the credit facility (including all outstanding indebtedness) to be immediately due and payable, to take action to protect its security interests in the collateral (which is substantially all of the assets of the Company) including taking possession thereof, and to increase the interest rate under the credit facility.
There can be no assurance that the Company will generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 or in fiscal quarters thereafter in order to avoid a breach of the Amended Credit Agreement.
As a result, the failure to maintain adequate liquidity or a default under our Amended Credit Agreement could have a material adverse effect on the Company.


item2.txt
The discussion and analysis for the three-months and nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 as set forth below in this Part I, Item 2 should be read in conjunction with the response to Part I, Item 1 of this report and the consolidated financial statements of Black Box Corporation ("Black Box," the "Company," "we" or "our"), including the related notes, and "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (the "Form 10-K").
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
References to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
New communications systems orders often generate post-implementation maintenance via a fixed fee model where revenues are earned ratably over the term of the agreement (generally 1-3 years for commercial clients and 3-5 years for government clients) or a variable fee model that is based on time and materials per occurrence, similar to MAC work.
Total Revenues were $194,873, a decrease of 7% from $210,370 in the same period last year.
Service Revenues were $160,480, a decrease of 8% from $174,261 in the same period last year due to a decrease in commercial revenues partially offset by an increase in government revenues.
Commercial revenues outside of North America increased primarily due to a realignment of several international entities between Products and Services as a result of changes in our management structure in the second quarter of Fiscal 2018.
Product Revenues were $34,393, a decrease of 5% from $36,109 in the same period last year primarily due to a decrease in North America Products' sales as a result of lower demand in the legacy run rate business and due to the aforementioned realignment of the international business between Products and Services.
Total Operating loss margin was 4.0%, compared to a Total Operating profit margin of 1.3% in the same period last year.
Service Operating loss margin was 3.3%, compared to Service Operating profit margin of 1.3% in the same period last year, primarily due to costs related to the ongoing U.S.-based ERP project and lower Gross profit margin referenced above, partially offset by lower variable compensation costs and unusual costs incurred in the prior year ($336 in AR impairment and $267 in loss on sales of facilities).
The Company will continue to incur costs associated with the U.S.-based ERP project that will have a negative impact on our profits and cash flows.
Product Operating loss margin was 7.7%, compared to Product Operating profit margin of 1.4% in the same period last year, primarily due to the decrease in Gross profit margin as referenced above.
Total Revenues were $580,681, a decrease of 10% from $647,599 in the same period last year.
Service Revenues were $476,152, a decrease of 10% from $529,346 in the same period last year primarily due to decreases in both unified communications and infrastructure business in North America, partially offset by an increase in government revenues due to market repositioning that was actioned over the past two years and an increase in commercial revenues outside of North America resulting from a realignment of several international entities between Products and Services as a result of changes in our management structure in the second quarter of Fiscal 2018.
Product Revenues were $104,529, a decrease of 12% from $118,253 in the same period last year, primarily due to a decrease in North America Products' sales as a result of lower demand in the legacy run rate business and a decline in International Products which was negatively impacted by a large one time deal (Norway) in the prior year and an initiative to centralize back office and supply chain operations, as well as due to the aforementioned realignment of the international business between Products and Services.
Total Gross profit margin was 27.9%, a decrease of 2% from 28.5% in the same period last year.
The same period last year included Inventory impairment losses of $6,327 for Services and $2,810 for Products, which together impacted Total Gross profit margin by 1.4%.
Service Gross profit margin was 24.9%, a decrease of 4% from 25.8% in the same period last year.
This decrease was primarily due to lower revenues on higher margin unified communication business and aggressive pricing on certain incremental infrastructure projects for our commercial clients and higher volume of successful contract awards that carry a lower gross margin for our government clients.
Product Gross profit margin was 41.4%, an increase of 2% from 40.6% in the same period last year.
Total Operating loss margin was 4.8%, a decrease compared to 0.2% in the same period last year.
Service Operating loss margin was 4.6%, a decrease compared to 0.4% in the same period last year, primarily due to costs related to the ongoing U.S.-based ERP project and $1,426 in Asset Impairment relating to Trademarks, partially offset by lower variable compensation costs.
Product Operating loss margin was 6.1%, a decrease compared to Product Operating profit margin of 0.9% in the same period last year, primarily due to the decrease in Gross profit margin as referenced above.
Net debt (debt less cash and cash equivalents) was $124,405 at the end of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, an increase of $48,906 from the end of Fiscal 2017 as a result of spending on our previously announced U.S.-based ERP project as well as increased working capital.
Net cash used for operating activities was $43,132, due primarily to Net loss of $49,085, inclusive of non-cash charges, cash outflows of $19,759 and $14,701 for All other liabilities and Costs in excess of billings, respectively, partially offset by cash inflows of $5,821 and $4,021 for Accounts receivable and Accounts payable, respectively, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $24,734 in the same period last year, due primarily to Net loss of $5,261, inclusive of non-cash charges, cash outflows of $8,953 for Costs in excess of billings, partially offset by cash inflows of $6,172 for Inventories.
The Company made investments of $3,618 compared to $6,141 in the same period last year which primarily related to information technology infrastructure, computer hardware and software and service vehicles.
The Company did not make any discretionary investments in the form of common stock repurchases in the current period nor in the same period last year.
The Company withheld shares in the amount of $395, compared to $477 in the prior year, to satisfy employee income taxes due as a result of the vesting of certain restricted stock units.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable.
The Company expects to use the funds that were previously available for stock repurchases to supplement spending for our previously announced U.S.-based ERP project and to develop and implement growth initiatives for the Company, both of which we believe will create long-term shareholder value.
The Company expects to use the funds that were previously available for dividends to supplement spending for our previously announced U.S.-based ERP project and to develop and implement growth initiatives for the Company, both of which we believe will create long-term shareholder value.


item3.txt
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had open foreign currency contracts in Australian and Canadian dollars, Danish krone, Euros, Mexican pesos, Norwegian kroner, British pounds sterling, Swedish krona, Swiss francs and Japanese yen.
The open contracts have contract rates ranging from 1.30 to 1.30 Australian dollar, 1.26 to 1.26 Canadian dollar, 6.31 to 6.31 Danish krone, 0.85 to 0.85 Euro, 19.17 to 19.17 Mexican peso, 8.01 to 8.01 Norwegian kroner, 0.75 to 0.76 British pound sterling, 8.16 to 8.16 Swedish krona, 0.97 to 0.97 Swiss franc and 112.15 to 112.15 Japanese yen, all per U.S. dollar.


item4.txt
Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), for the Company.
Based upon this assessment, Management has concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 30, 2017 to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed or submitted by it under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to Management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
In August 2017, we amended our senior credit agreement to avoid a default of our then existing leverage covenant.
Our amended credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019.
Based upon our current projections, we may not be able to generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 (ending March 31, 2018) in order to meet the minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant for that quarter.
If we fail to meet such minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant, the lenders would have the ability to exercise all of their legal and contractual remedies for default including, among others, the right to cease extending credit under the credit facility, to declare all outstanding obligations under the credit facility (including all outstanding indebtedness) to be immediately due and payable, to take action to protect its security interests in the collateral (which is substantially all of the assets of the Company) including taking possession thereof, and to increase the interest rate under the credit facility.


