Item 4.
Controls and Procedures




Part II—Other Information

Item 1.
Legal Proceedings

The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations.
However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors

The accounting for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash or in shares of common stock could have a material effect on our reported financial results.
Under U.S. GAAP, an entity must separately account for the debt component and the embedded conversion option of convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash or in shares of common stock upon conversion, such as our New Senior Convertible Notes, in a manner that reflects the issuer’s effective interest cost.
The fair value of the embedded conversion option is classified as an addition to stockholder’s equity.
The difference between book carrying cost and face value of the debt represents a non-cash discount.
This difference will be amortized into interest expense over the estimated life of the New Senior Convertible Notes using the effective yield method.
As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the discount over the term of the New Senior Convertible Notes.
Accordingly, we will report lower net income because of the recognition of both the current period’s discount amortization and the New Senior Convertible Notes’ coupon interest, which could adversely affect the trading price of our shares of common stock and the trading price (if any) of the New Senior Convertible Notes.
Under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the New Senior Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash are evaluated for their impact on earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the New Senior Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the New Senior Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount.
Under the treasury stock method the number of shares outstanding for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share includes the number of shares that would be required to settle the excess of the conversion value of the New Senior Convertible Notes, if any, over the principal amounts of the New Senior Convertible Notes (which would be settled in cash).
The conversion value of the New Senior Convertible Notes will exceed the principal amount of the notes to the extent the trading price of a share of our stock exceeds $203.50.
We intend to settle the principal amount of the convertible notes in cash.
However, we may not have access to the capital markets for financing on acceptable terms and conditions, particularly if our credit ratings are downgraded.
Accordingly, we may be forced to fully settle the New Senior Convertible Notes in shares of common stock upon conversion, the effect of which would cause the dilutive impact to earnings per share to be significantly in excess of the dilutive impact reflected by the treasury stock method.
In addition to the risk factor above, the reader should carefully consider, in connection with the other information in this report, the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A: Risk Factors” on pages 9 through 21 of the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

On January 3, 2019, as partial consideration for the acquisition of VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location, we issued 1,802,379 shares of common stock the Company at a fair value of $198 million, inclusive of $38 million related to compensation withheld from the purchase that will be expensed over an average service period of one year, to certain of the former owners of VaaS.
These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation.
On July 11, 2019 the Company issued 80,702 shares of restricted stock in connection with the acquisition of WatchGuard, Inc., a company that is a U.S. leader in mobile video solutions.
The restricted stock was issued for an aggregate grant-date fair value of $14 million that will be expensed over an average service period of two years.
These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation.
As disclosed on a Form 8-K previously filed, on September 5, 2019, the Company entered into an investment agreement, pursuant to which it issued $1.0 billion in the New Senior Convertible Notes in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The sale was completed in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act.
The Company relied on such exemption from registration based in part on representations made by the investment agreement with Silver Lake Partners.
On September 5, 2019, in connection with the agreement with Silver Lake Partners to settle a portion of the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes, the Company issued 5,471,271 million shares of common stock.
These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering of solicitation.
Subsequently, the shares were registered for resale by the selling securityholders pursuant to a registration statement filed on September 6, 2019.
The selling securityholders will receive all of the proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the shares of common stock.
The Company will not receive any of the proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the shares of common stock.
The following table provides information with respect to acquisitions by the Company of shares of its common stock during the quarter ended September 28, 2019.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
None.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
Item 6.
Exhibits




 MOTOROLA, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC and are used under license.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
©2019 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
