Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations.
However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors
We are subject to laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and information security, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such legal obligations could adversely affect our business.
 The European Union ("EU") adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) which took effect on May 25, 2018 harmonizing data protection laws across the EU.
The GDPR strengthens individual privacy rights and enhances data protection obligations for processors and controllers of personal data.
This includes expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information and mandatory data breach notification requirements.
Non-compliance with the GDPR can trigger fines of up to €20 million or 4% of total worldwide annual revenue, whichever is greater.
Also, U.S. federal, state and other foreign governments and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, storage, use, processing and disclosure personal data.
Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing practices or the features of our products, services and software.
Any failure or perceived failure by us, our business partners, or third party service providers to comply with GDPR, other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations, or the privacy commitments contained in contracts could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others and significant fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and harm our reputation.
In addition, some countries are considering legislation requiring local storage and processing of data that, if enacted, could increase the cost and complexity of offering our product, services and software or maintaining our business operations in those jurisdictions.
In addition to the risk factor above, the reader should carefully consider, in connection with the other information in this report, the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A: Risk Factors” on pages 8 through 20 of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere.
