Part II—Other Information
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations.
However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors
The reader should carefully consider, in connection with the other information in this report, the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A: Risk Factors” on pages 9 through 21 of the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
On January 3, 2019, as partial consideration for the acquisition of VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location, we issued 1,802,379 shares of the Company at a fair value of $198 million, inclusive of $38 million related to compensation withheld from the purchase that will be expensed over an average service period of one year, to certain of the former owners of VaaS.
These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a) (2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation.
The following table provides information with respect to acquisitions by the Company of shares of its common stock during the quarter ended June 29, 2019.
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
None.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
Item 6.
Exhibits
 MOTOROLA, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC and are used under license.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
©2019 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX
