item1.txt
Upon adoption at January 1, 2019, the Company recognized right of use assets of $91,462 and lease liabilities of $95,784 on the consolidated balance sheet.
The Company recognizes right of use assets and lease liabilities for leases greater than twelve months in duration based on the contract consideration for lease components through the term of the lease and the applicable discount rate.
The Company does not recognize right of use assets or lease liabilities for short-term leases and classifies the expense as short-term lease expense.
Variable lease payments not based on an index or rate are not included in the initial right of use asset and lease liability and are recognized when incurred as a component of lease expense in the statement of operations.
The Company paid $5,050 for its operating leases in the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2019, which are included in operating cash flows on the consolidated condensed statement of cash flows.
The weighted-average remaining lease term for the Company's operating leases is 9.3 years and the weighted-average discount rate is 6.1% as of March 30, 2019.
The Company elected to use the package of practical expedients available in ASC Topic 842; and accordingly, did not reassess existing contracts for leases, the classification of existing leases, or initial direct costs for any existing leases.
The Company did not elect the practical expedient available in ASC Topic 842 to use hindsight in determining the lease term.
The convertible senior debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 30, 2019 evaluation, due to the sale price of Vishay's common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon future conversion of any of the convertible debt instruments, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible debt instruments in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The excess of the amount that the Company would pay to the holders of the convertible senior debentures due 2040 upon conversion over the carrying value of the liability component of the debentures currently convertible has been reclassified as temporary equity on the consolidated condensed financial statements.
Accordingly, the debt component of the convertible senior debentures due 2040 continues to be classified as a non-current liability on the consolidated condensed balance sheets.
The quarterly cash dividend program of the Company results in adjustments to the conversion rate and effective conversion price for the convertible debt instruments effective as of the ex-dividend date of each cash dividend.
The conversion rate and effective conversion price for the convertible senior notes due 2025 is adjusted for quarterly cash dividends to the extent such dividends exceed $0.085 per share of common stock.
Interest is payable on the convertible debt instruments semi-annually at the cash coupon rate; however, the remaining debt discount is being amortized as additional non-cash interest expense using an effective annual interest rate equal to the Company’s estimated nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of issuance.
The Company used cash to repurchase $960, $12,288 and $2,168 principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, respectively, in the first fiscal quarter of 2019.
In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for convertible debentures, the aggregate repurchase payment of $22,695 was allocated between the liability ($7,311) and equity (including temporary equity, $15,384) components of the convertible debentures, using the Company's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of the repurchase.
As a result, the Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of convertible debentures of $1,307, including the write-off of a portion of unamortized debt issuance costs.
The Company determines compensation cost for restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and phantom stock units based on the grant-date fair value of the underlying common stock adjusted for expected dividends paid over the required vesting period for non-participating awards.
In periods that the debentures are not convertible, the certain conditions which could trigger conversion of the remaining debentures have been deemed to be non-substantive, and accordingly, the Company assumes the conversion of these instruments in its diluted earnings per share computation during periods in which they are dilutive.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of any of the convertible debt instruments in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The Company estimates the fair value of its long-term debt using a combination of quoted market prices for similar financing arrangements and expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates, which are considered Level 2 inputs.
At March 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s short-term investments were comprised of time deposits with financial institutions that have maturities that exceed 90 days from the date of acquisition; however they all mature within one year from the respective balance sheet dates.
The Company's short-term investments are accounted for as held-to-maturity debt instruments, at amortized cost, which approximates their fair value.
The Company estimates the fair value of its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments using level 2 inputs.
Based on the current interest rates for similar investments with comparable credit risk and time to maturity, the fair value of the Company's cash, cash equivalents, and held-to-maturity short-term investments approximate the carrying amounts reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets.
The Company’s financial instruments also include accounts receivable, short-term notes payable, and accounts payable.


item2.txt
We have paid dividends each quarter since the first fiscal quarter of 2014, and increased the quarterly cash dividend by 26% to $0.085 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
During the fourth quarter of 2018, we utilized repatriated cash to repurchase additional convertible senior debentures in open market and privately-negotiated transactions with holders.
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business.
Net revenues increased versus the prior year quarter, but decreased versus the prior fiscal quarter.
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2019 were $745.2 million, compared to $775.9 million and $716.8 million for the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2019 were $75.5 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, compared to $102.4 million, or $0.69 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2018, and $62.4 million, or $0.39 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018.
Although the term "free cash" is not defined in GAAP, each of the elements used to calculate free cash for the year-to-date period is presented as a line item on the face of our consolidated condensed statement of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP and the quarterly amounts are derived from the year-to-date GAAP statements as of the beginning and end of the respective quarter.
Our results for the fiscal quarters ended March 30, 2019, December 31, 2018, and March 31, 2018 represent the effects of a strong business environment, our cost reduction programs, and our organic growth initiatives.
Revenues decreased versus the prior fiscal quarter, but increased versus the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
Gross profit margin was stable versus the prior fiscal quarter, but decreased versus the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
U.S. tariffs on goods imported from China impacted the gross profit margin versus both the prior fiscal quarter and first fiscal quarter of 2018.
For the second fiscal quarter of 2019, we anticipate revenues between $700 million and $740 million and gross margins of 26% to 27% at the exchange rates of the first fiscal quarter of 2019.
While the translation of revenues and expenses incurred in the local currency into U.S. dollars does not directly impact the statements of operations, the translation effectively increases or decreases the U.S. dollar equivalent of revenues generated and expenses incurred in those foreign currencies.
The dollar generally was stronger during the first fiscal quarter compared to the prior year quarter and prior fiscal quarter, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars decreasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior year quarter and prior fiscal quarter.
The cost of products sold for the first fiscal quarter of 2019 have been favorably impacted compared to the prior year quarter, but unfavorably impacted compared to the prior fiscal quarter by local currency transactions of subsidiaries which use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency.
We experienced a substantial, broad-based increase in demand for our products beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through the third fiscal quarter of 2018, which resulted in increased net revenues compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
The decrease in demand resulted in decreased net revenues compared to the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018.
In the first fiscal quarter of 2019, the MOSFETs segment experienced a slight decline in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter, but a significant increase in net revenues versus the prior year quarter.
Net revenues increased significantly from American and European end customers, but decreased moderately in our biggest market, Asian distributors, versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter.
Net revenues of our Diodes segment declined significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter, but increased slightly versus the prior year quarter.
All regions, particularly Asia, and distribution customers contributed to the decrease versus the prior fiscal quarter.
The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased average selling prices, which were partially offset by the negative impacts of a weaker euro.
Average selling prices decreased versus the prior fiscal quarter, but increased versus the prior year quarter.
The slight decrease versus the prior fiscal quarter is primarily due to increased pricing pressure from the decreased demand from some end markets.
The slight increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to a more favorable customer mix and the impact of U.S. tariffs passed through to customers.
We experienced a slight decline in average selling prices versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter.
The gross profit margin improved versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year quarter.
The increase versus the prior fiscal quarter is primarily due to cost reduction activities.
The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased sales volume, cost reduction activities, and volume efficiencies.
Due to the strong business environment throughout 2018, average selling prices increased through the first nine fiscal months of 2018 before starting to decrease consistent with our historical experience in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018.
This resulted in average selling prices that were slightly lower versus the prior fiscal quarter and slightly higher versus the prior year quarter.
Net revenues of the Capacitors segment for the first fiscal quarter of 2019 decreased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter, but increased significantly versus the prior year quarter.
The increase in net revenues from the European region versus the prior fiscal quarter was offset by decreases from the Asia and American regions.
Increases in net revenues from the European and American regions versus the prior year quarter were only partially offset by decreases from the Asia region.
The decrease in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter is primarily due to distribution customers.
Distribution customers contributed the most to the revenue increase versus the prior year quarter.
The gross profit margin in the first fiscal quarter of 2019 increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year quarter.
The increase versus the prior fiscal quarter is primarily due to a more favorable product mix and higher average selling prices.
The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased sales volume and higher average selling prices.
Due to the positive business climate, average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter.
For the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2019, our effective tax rate was 24.3%, as compared to -2.3% and 32.0% for the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
We recorded additional tax benefit of $0.6 million and tax expense of $1.3 million in the first fiscal quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, due to the remeasurement of the deferred tax liability related to our cash repatriation program, primarily due to foreign currency effects.
The effective tax rate for the fiscal quarters ended March 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was also impacted by the effect of the repurchase of convertible senior debentures.
We recognized a tax benefit of $1.3 million and $20.9 million in the fiscal quarters ended March 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, resulting from the extinguishments, reflecting the reduction in deferred tax liabilities related to the special tax attributes of the debentures.
During the three fiscal months ended March 30, 2019, the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits increased by $1.4 million on a net basis, due to increases for tax positions taken in the current and prior periods and interest, offset by expiration of a statute.
We expect to fund any future repurchases of convertible debentures, as well as other obligations required to be paid by the U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., including cash dividends to stockholders, share repurchases, and principal and interest payments on our debt instruments by borrowing under our revolving credit facility.


item3.txt
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 15, 2019 describes certain of our legal proceedings.
On March 4, 2019, the Seoul Central District Court issued a summary order finding that VPC had violated South Korea’s Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Law and imposed a penalty of approximately $44,000 against VPC.


item4.txt
31.1   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Dr. Gerald Paul, Chief Executive Officer.
31.2   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Lori Lipcaman, Chief Financial Officer.


part2.txt
At the conclusion of that review, the Seoul Central District Prosecutors’ Office issued a summary indictment of VPC, along with other respondents, for alleged violations of applicable antitrust laws.
On March 4, 2019, the Seoul Central District Court issued a summary order finding that VPC had violated South Korea’s Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Law and imposed a penalty of approximately $44,000 against VPC.
31.1   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Dr. Gerald Paul, Chief Executive Officer.
31.2   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Lori Lipcaman, Chief Financial Officer.
32.2   Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 – Lori Lipcaman, Chief Financial Officer.


