item1.txt
Upon adoption of the ASU, the Company will recognize lease assets and liabilities for its operating leases which are not currently reported on its consolidated balance sheets.
Except for the changes described in "Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance" above and in this section below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies described in its Note 1 to its audited consolidated financial statement included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, to all periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements.
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company considers its warranty obligations as service-type warranties and allocates a portion of the estimated consideration to be received from the related contract to the service-type warranty performance obligation and recognizes the related revenue over the warranty period.
The Company recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment of $2,210 to January 1, 2016 retained earnings (accumulated deficit) and recorded adjustments to its consolidated balance sheets due to the impact of recognizing revenue for certain custom products over time rather than at a point in time.
The Company has not restated completed contracts that begin and end in the same annual reporting period; used the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods; has not disclosed the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize the amount as revenue for the reporting periods presented prior to January 1, 2016; and has not retrospectively restated the contract for modifications made prior to January 1, 2016 and instead reflected the aggregate effect of all modifications when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price pursuant to the transition practical expedients available.
The Company reclassified net benefit costs other than the current service component previously reported as cost of goods sold and selling, general, and administrative expenses to other expenses for each quarter in the retrospective adoption period in the table below.
The Company's repurchase of a portion of the outstanding convertible debentures in the second fiscal quarter of 2018 (see Note 6) reduced the Company's expected full year 2018 tax rate.
The convertible notes due 2025 are initially convertible into cash, shares of Vishay common stock, or a combination thereof, at the Company's option, at a conversion rate of 31.7536 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes.
The Company used substantially all of the net proceeds of the June 2018 issuance of convertible senior notes due 2025 to repurchase $220,000 and $69,060 principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively.
In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for convertible debentures, the aggregate repurchase payment of $584,991 was allocated between the liability ($133,647) and equity (including temporary equity, $451,344) components of the convertible debentures, using the Company's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of the repurchase.
As a result, the Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of convertible debentures of $17,309, including the write-off of a portion of unamortized debt issuance costs.
The quarterly cash dividend program of the Company results in adjustments to the conversion rate and effective conversion price for each issuance of the Company's convertible senior debentures effective as of the ex-dividend date of each cash dividend.
The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the September 29, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of Vishay's common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the September 29, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of Vishay's common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon future conversion of any of the convertible senior debentures, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The excess of the amount that the Company would pay to the holders of the debentures due 2040 and due 2042 upon conversion over the carrying value of the liability component of the debentures currently convertible has been reclassified as temporary equity on the consolidated condensed financial statements.
The Company recognized a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings (accumulated deficit) of $1,801 for the cumulative change in fair value of available-for-sale equity investments previously recognized in other comprehensive income due to the adoption of ASU 2016-01.
The Company determines compensation cost for restricted stock units ("RSUs") and phantom stock units based on the grant-date fair value of the underlying common stock adjusted for expected dividends paid over the required vesting period for non-participating awards.
In periods that the debentures are not convertible, the certain conditions which could trigger conversion of the remaining debentures have been deemed to be non-substantive, and accordingly, the Company assumes the conversion of these instruments in its diluted earnings per share computation during periods in which they are dilutive.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, and the convertible senior notes, due 2025, in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, issued by the Company on November 9, 2010, May 13, 2011, and May 31, 2012, respectively, contain embedded derivative features that GAAP requires to be bifurcated and remeasured each reporting period.
The Company estimated the fair value of the forward contracts based on applicable and commonly used pricing models using current market information and is considered a Level 2 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
The Company estimates the fair value of its long-term debt using a combination of quoted market prices for similar financing arrangements and expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates, which are considered Level 2 inputs.
The Company's short-term investments are accounted for as held-to-maturity debt instruments, at amortized cost, which approximates their fair value.
Based on the current interest rates for similar investments with comparable credit risk and time to maturity, the fair value of the Company's cash, cash equivalents, and held-to-maturity short-term investments approximate the carrying amounts reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets.
At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, and the convertible senior notes, due 2025 in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The application of the "If Converted" method generally results in significantly more potentially dilutive securities compared to the "Treasury Stock Method." Pursuant to the indentures governing the respective debentures and notes, we have the right to pay the conversion value or purchase price for the debentures in cash, Vishay common stock, or a combination of both.
The transition tax under the TCJA, cash dividends to stockholders, share repurchases, convertible debt repurchases, and principal and interest payments on our debt instruments need to be paid by the U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. Our U.S. subsidiaries have other operating cash needs.


item2.txt
The quarterly cash dividend was increased by 26% to $0.085 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
As a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") in December 2017, we terminated the aforementioned cash repatriation plan and replaced it with a plan to repatriate approximately $1.1 billion of unremitted foreign earnings in Israel, Germany, Austria, and France in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017.
Substantially all of the amounts repatriated in the second fiscal quarter were used to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness.
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business.
In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we retrospectively adopted two new accounting standards, which impacted previously reported net revenues, gross profit margin, and segment operating income.
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018 were $781.0 million, compared to $761.0 million and $677.9 million for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Although the term "free cash" is not defined in GAAP, each of the elements used to calculate free cash for the year-to-date period is presented as a line item on the face of our consolidated condensed statement of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP and the quarterly amounts are derived from the year-to-date GAAP statements as of the beginning and end of the respective quarter.
Our free cash results for the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 were significantly impacted by the payment of cash taxes of $92.1 million and $64.7 million related to the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively, and the payment of the first $14.4 million installment of the U.S. transition tax in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
These key financial measures and metrics include net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, and the book-to-bill ratio.
We repurchased $220.0 million and $69.1 million of convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
The dollar generally was weaker during the first nine fiscal months of 2018 compared to the prior year-to-date period, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars increasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior year-to-date period.
The dollar generally was stronger during the third fiscal quarter compared to the prior year quarter and prior fiscal quarter, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars decreasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior year quarter and prior fiscal quarter.
The cost of products sold for the third fiscal quarter of 2018 have been favorably impacted (compared to the prior year quarter and prior fiscal quarter) by local currency transactions of subsidiaries which use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency.
We experienced a substantial, broad-based increase in demand for our products beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through the third fiscal quarter of 2018, which resulted in increased net revenues compared to the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods.
Gross profit margins for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018 were 30.3%, versus 29.9% and 28.0%, for the comparable prior quarter and prior year period, respectively.
Gross profit margins for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 were 29.6%, versus 27.3% for the comparable prior year period.
MOSFETs segment net revenues in the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 increased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods.
The strong performance of our IC product business in the third fiscal quarter of 2017 results in comparatively lower growth with Asian distributors in the current year periods.
Price increases for select products and ongoing price reductions for other products resulted in a net increase of average selling prices versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter and a slight decline versus the prior year-to-date period.
The Diodes segment achieved significant growth in net revenues in the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 versus the prior year periods and slight growth versus the prior fiscal quarter.
The increase versus the prior fiscal quarter was primarily due to volume growth, especially in the Asia and Americas regions, and higher average selling prices, partially offset by negative impacts from a weaker euro.
The Optoelectronic Components segment experienced a slight increase in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter, a slight decrease versus the prior year quarter, and a moderate increase versus the prior year-to-date period.
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the third fiscal quarter of 2018 average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter and decreased slightly versus the prior year-to-date period.
Net revenues of the Capacitors segment for the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 increased significantly versus the prior year periods and moderately versus the prior fiscal quarter.
Net revenues in the Europe region decreased slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency effects.
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the third fiscal quarter of 2018, average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior quarter and prior year periods.
We recognized a $17.3 million loss on early extinguishment of the repurchased convertible debentures in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
Based on our current debt structure, including our expected usage of the revolving credit facility, we expect future interest expense to be approximately $10.4 million per quarter, of which $5.5 million will be payable in cash and the remainder will represent non-cash accretion and amortization of issuance costs.
The effective tax rate for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 was also significantly impacted by the effect of the repurchase of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042 in the second fiscal quarter.
During the third fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018, we recorded tax expense of $0.7 million and tax benefit of $7.0 million, respectively, due to the remeasurement of the deferred tax liability related to our cash repatriation program.
As a result of these repatriations, we paid cash taxes of $92.1 million and $64.7 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively.
During the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018, the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits increased by $3.5 million on a net basis, due to increases for tax positions taken in the current period and interest, offset by payments and foreign currency effects.
During the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, we repatriated approximately $274 million and approximately $450 million, respectively, to the United States, and paid cash taxes of $92.1 and $64.7 million, respectively, related to the repatriations.
The payment of these cash taxes significantly impacted cash flows from operations and free cash for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018.
We utilized most of the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the second fiscal quarter of 2018 to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness.
We utilized a portion of the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the third fiscal quarter of 2018 to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility to zero.
During the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, we repatriated approximately $274 million and approximately $450 million, respectively, to the United States, and paid cash taxes of $92.1 and $64.7 million, respectively, related to the repatriations.
The U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., must fund cash dividends to stockholders (which were increased 26% in the second fiscal quarter of 2018), any stock repurchases, principal and interest payments on our debt instruments, and the TCJA transition tax.
The quarterly cash dividend was increased to $0.085 per share of common stock and Class B common stock in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.


item3.txt
Except as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors we previously disclosed under Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018.
The liquidity of any trading market that currently exists for our convertible senior debentures may be adversely affected by the repurchase of $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, during the second fiscal quarter of 2018, and the holders of the remaining convertible debentures may be more likely to present their convertible debentures for conversion.
At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, and the convertible senior notes, due 2025 in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
Regardless of current convertibility of the debentures, GAAP requires convertible debentures to be included in the calculation of diluted EPS using either the "If Converted" or the "Treasury Stock Method" depending on our intent and ability to settle the debentures upon repurchase or conversion.
The application of the "If Converted" method generally results in significantly more potentially dilutive securities compared to the "Treasury Stock Method." Pursuant to the indentures governing the respective debentures and notes, we have the right to pay the conversion value or purchase price for the debentures in cash, Vishay common stock, or a combination of both.


item4.txt
31.2   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Lori Lipcaman, Chief Financial Officer.


part2.txt
The liquidity of any trading market that currently exists for our convertible senior debentures may be adversely affected by the repurchase of $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, during the second fiscal quarter of 2018, and the holders of the remaining convertible debentures may be more likely to present their convertible debentures for conversion.
At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, and the convertible senior notes, due 2025 in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The recorded and principal amount of our outstanding debt increased from approximately $370.5 million and $725.0 million, respectively as of December 31, 2017 to approximately $588.6 million and $885.9 million, respectively, as of September 29, 2018, primarily due to the issuance of the convertible senior notes due 2025.
As of June 30, 2018, our convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042 are convertible (See Note 6 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1).
Regardless of current convertibility of the debentures, GAAP requires convertible debentures to be included in the calculation of diluted EPS using either the "If Converted" or the "Treasury Stock Method" depending on our intent and ability to settle the debentures upon repurchase or conversion.
The application of the "If Converted" method generally results in significantly more potentially dilutive securities compared to the "Treasury Stock Method." Pursuant to the indentures governing the respective debentures and notes, we have the right to pay the conversion value or purchase price for the debentures in cash, Vishay common stock, or a combination of both.
At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the debentures and notes and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The transition tax under the TCJA, cash dividends to stockholders, share repurchases, convertible debt repurchases, and principal and interest payments on our debt instruments need to be paid by the U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. Our U.S. subsidiaries have other operating cash needs.


