item1.txt
Upon adoption of the ASU, the Company will recognize lease assets and liabilities for its operating leases which are not currently reported on its consolidated balance sheets.
Except for the changes described in "Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance" above and in this section below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies described in its Note 1 to its audited consolidated financial statement included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, to all periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements.
The Company previously recognized revenue when the sales process was completed, which generally occurred when the product was delivered and risk of loss was transferred to the customer.
The Company has a limited number of contracts for custom products that meet the criteria to recognize revenue over time.
The Company recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment of $2,210 to January 1, 2016 retained earnings (accumulated deficit) and recorded adjustments to its consolidated balance sheets due to the impact of recognizing revenue for certain custom products over time rather than at a point in time.
The Company has not restated completed contracts that begin and end in the same annual reporting period; used the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods; has not disclosed the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize the amount as revenue for the reporting periods presented prior to January 1, 2016; and has not retrospectively restated the contract for modifications made prior to January 1, 2016 and instead reflected the aggregate effect of all modifications when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price pursuant to the transition practical expedients available.
The Company reclassified net benefit costs other than the current service component previously reported as cost of goods sold and selling, general, and administrative expenses to other expenses for each quarter in the retrospective adoption period in the table below.
As of January 1, 2018, the Company recognizes revenue from contracts with customers in accordance with ASU 2014-09.
The Company applies the practical expedient within ASU 2014-09 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component of the transaction price.
The Company applies the practical expedient available within ASU 2014-09 to all commissions paid as the future amortization period of the asset that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less.
The quarterly cash dividend program of the Company results in adjustments to the conversion rate and effective conversion price for each issuance of the Company's convertible senior debentures effective as of the ex-dividend date of each cash dividend.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon future conversion of any of the convertible senior debentures, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The excess of the amount that the Company would pay to the holders of the debentures due 2040 and due 2042 upon conversion over the carrying value of the liability component of the debentures currently convertible has been reclassified as temporary equity on the consolidated condensed financial statements.
Interest is payable on the debentures semi-annually at the cash coupon rate; however, the remaining debt discount is being amortized as additional non-cash interest expense using an effective annual interest rate equal to the Company's estimated nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of issuance.
The Company recognized a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings (accumulated deficit) of $1,801 for the cumulative change in fair value of available-for-sale equity investments previously recognized in other comprehensive income due to the adoption of ASU 2016-01.
The Company recognizes compensation cost for RSUs that are expected to vest and records cumulative adjustments in the period that the expectation changes.
In periods that the debentures are not convertible, the certain conditions which could trigger conversion of the remaining debentures have been deemed to be non-substantive, and accordingly, the Company assumes the conversion of these instruments in its diluted earnings per share computation during periods in which they are dilutive.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, issued by the Company on November 9, 2010, May 13, 2011, and May 31, 2012, respectively, contain embedded derivative features that GAAP requires to be bifurcated and remeasured each reporting period.
The Company estimates the fair value of the forward contracts based on applicable and commonly used pricing models using current market information and is considered a Level 2 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
The Company estimates the fair value of its long-term debt using a combination of quoted market prices for similar financing arrangements and expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates, which are considered Level 2 inputs.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company's short-term investments were comprised of time deposits with financial institutions that have maturities that exceed 90 days from the date of acquisition; however they all mature within one year from the respective balance sheet dates.
The Company's short-term investments are accounted for as held-to-maturity debt instruments, at amortized cost, which approximates their fair value.
The Company estimates the fair value of its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments using level 2 inputs.
Based on the current interest rates for similar investments with comparable credit risk and time to maturity, the fair value of the Company's cash, cash equivalents, and held-to-maturity short-term investments approximate the carrying amounts reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets.


item2.txt
In December 2015, we amended our credit facility to increase our ability to repurchase shares of stock or pay cash dividends.
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business.
In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we retrospectively adopted two new accounting standards, which impacted previously reported net revenues, gross profit margin, and segment operating income.
Net revenues increased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year quarter.
The strong order levels of 2017 continued in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 and resulted in continued strong metrics and an increase in nearly all key financial metrics compared to the prior quarter and prior year quarter.
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $716.8 million, compared to $673.5 million and $604.8 million for the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2017 and April 1, 2017, respectively.
The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $62.4 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, compared to net loss attributable to Vishay stockholders of $(177.7) million, or $(1.23) per share for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2017, and net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders of $36.7 million, or $0.24 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2017.
The reconciliations below include certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash.
Although the term "free cash" is not defined in GAAP, each of the elements used to calculate free cash for the year-to-date period is presented as a line item on the face of our consolidated condensed statement of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP and the quarterly amounts are derived from the year-to-date GAAP statements as of the beginning and end of the respective quarter.
Our results for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2018, December 31, 2017, and April 1, 2017 represent the effects of a strong business environment and order activity, our cost reduction programs, and our organic growth initiatives.
These key financial measures and metrics include net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, and the book-to-bill ratio.
Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gains or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues.
Revenues increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and first fiscal quarter of 2017.
Gross profit margin increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and the first fiscal quarter of 2017.
For the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we anticipate revenues between $740 million and $780 million and gross margins of 28.5% to 29.5% at the exchange rates of the first fiscal quarter.
During the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we recorded additional tax expense of $1.3 million due to the remeasurement of this deferred tax liability, primarily due to foreign currency effects.
While the translation of revenues and expenses incurred in the local currency into U.S. dollars does not directly impact the statements of operations, the translation effectively increases or decreases the U.S. dollar equivalent of revenues generated and expenses incurred in those foreign currencies.
The dollar generally was weaker during the first fiscal quarter of 2018 compared to the prior quarter and prior year quarter, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars increasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter.
The cost of products sold and selling, general, and administrative expense for the first fiscal quarter of 2018 have been unfavorably impacted (compared to the prior quarter and prior year quarter) by local currency transactions of subsidiaries which use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency.
We experienced a substantial, broad-based increase in demand for our products beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through the first fiscal quarter of 2018, which resulted in increased net revenues compared to the prior fiscal quarter and first fiscal quarter of 2017.
In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, the MOSFETs segment experienced significant growth in net revenues versus the prior year quarter and moderate growth versus the prior quarter.
All regions and sales channels contributed to the significant increase versus the prior year quarter with Americas and European distributors experiencing above average growth.
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the first fiscal quarter of 2018, the reduction in the pricing pressure from last year continued for our established MOSFETs products.
Price increases for select products and ongoing price reductions for other products resulted in a slight increase of average selling prices versus the prior quarter and a slight decline versus the prior year quarter.
In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, the Optoelectronic Components segment experienced a moderate increase in net revenues versus the prior quarter and a significant increase versus the prior year quarter.
The gross profit margin increased versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter.
The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased net revenues, the currency impacts of a stronger euro, which impacted revenues more than expenses, and increased efficiencies.
The increase versus the prior quarter is primarily due to increased net revenues, the positive impact of an inventory increase, increased efficiencies, as well as cost reduction measures that exceeded the impacts of cost inflation and lower average selling prices.
Net revenues of the Capacitors segment for the first fiscal quarter of 2018 increased significantly versus the prior year quarter and slightly versus the prior quarter.
The Europe region contributed most to the growth in net revenues versus the prior year quarter, while revenues for the Asia and Americas regions remained relatively constant.
The gross profit margin in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 increased versus the prior quarter and the prior year quarter.
The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased net revenues and manufacturing efficiencies.
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the first fiscal quarter of 2018, average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior quarter and decreased slightly versus the prior year quarter.
For the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018, our effective tax rate was 32.0%, as compared to 364.8% and 26.7% for the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2017 and April 1, 2017, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2017 is higher than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to certain discrete items recorded in the period.
During the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we recorded additional tax expense of $1.3 million due to the remeasurement of the deferred tax liability related to our cash repatriation program, primarily due to foreign currency effects.
During the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018, the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits increased by $0.6 million on a net basis, due to increases for tax positions taken in the current period, interest, and foreign currency effects.
Management uses a non-GAAP measure, "free cash," to evaluate our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends.
We continued to generate positive cash flows from operations and free cash during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018.
The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of our common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
Additionally, cash dividends to stockholders, share repurchases, and principal and interest payments on our debt instruments need to be paid by the U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. Our U.S. subsidiaries have other operating cash needs.
There were no material changes to these commitments since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K other than a $14.4 million increase to the non-current portion of the U.S. transition tax payable due to a reclassification from current liabilities based on guidance from the United States Internal Revenue Service on quarterly estimated payments on the transition tax.
Cash dividends of $0.0625 per share of common stock and Class B common stock were paid in the first three fiscal quarters of 2017.
The quarterly cash dividend was increased to $0.0675 per share of common stock and Class B common stock in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017.
The quarterly cash dividend was increased to $0.085 per share of common stock and Class B common stock in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.


item3.txt
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018, describe certain of our legal proceedings.


item4.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our current report on Form 8-K, filed on February 16, 2018.
(an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.), Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., and Clarence Tse. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our current report on Form 8-K, filed on February 16, 2018.
10.6   Employment Agreement, dated February 15, 2018, between Vishay Electronic GmbH (an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.), Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., and Werner Gebhardt.


part2.txt
10.1   Employment Agreement, dated February 15, 2018, between Vishay Europe GmbH (an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.), Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., and Lori Lipcaman.
(an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.), Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., and Clarence Tse. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our current report on Form 8-K, filed on February 16, 2018.
10.6   Employment Agreement, dated February 15, 2018, between Vishay Electronic GmbH (an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.), Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., and Werner Gebhardt.
10.7   Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. Form of Executive Officer Restricted Stock Unit Agreement.
31.2   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Lori Lipcaman, Chief Financial Officer.


