fls.txt



item1.txt
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $4.1 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.1 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months.
As of September 30, 2019, $176 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability was classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $45 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The TD Bank Credit Facility imposes certain quarterly financial covenants on us and restricts, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness and the creation of other liens.
We were not in compliance with one of our financial covenants of the TD Bank Credit Facility at September 30, 2019.
On November 6, 2019, we obtained a waiver from TD Bank for compliance with this financial covenant, which pertains to operating cash flow to total debt service (the “OCF”) at September 30, 2019 and amended the definition of interest expense to exclude fees paid on unused borrowings under the revolving credit line, which is used to calculate total debt service in the OCF.
We ended the third quarter of 2019 with $1.2 million in cash and cash equivalents, of which $0.2 million was held by our U.K. subsidiary, and no debt outstanding.


item2.txt
TransAct is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas.
Through our TransAct Services Group (“TSG”), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets.
We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts.
hardware and software solutions by 2019 year end with an additional approximately 250 locations expected to go live over the following two years.
The average selling price of our printers, terminals and other hardware increased 3% during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 due primarily to a lower level of lottery printer sales and POS automation and banking printer sales, which sell at a lower price than our other products.
software recognized on a SaaS subscription basis, labels and other recurring revenue increased by 267%, including an over 250% increase in label sales and a ten-fold increase in software sales (though off of a low base in the third quarter of 2018) in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Hardware sales increased by 2% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018. solution sale to a casino operator located in the Asia-Pacific market.
The decrease in both domestic and international POS automation and banking product revenue for the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a 26% decrease in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, largely to McDonald’s.
We expect sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer to McDonald’s to be lower for the full year 2019 compared to the full year 2018.
These decreases were partially offset by slightly higher revenue from recurring EPICENTRALTM annual software maintenance fees during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
The decrease in international sales of our casino and gaming products in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 was due to a 20% decrease in sales of our thermal casino printers due primarily to lower sales to a large OEM in Europe.
The decrease was partially offset by 37% higher international sales of our off-premise gaming printers during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018, primarily to an OEM in Europe for sports betting, as well as stronger sales in Australia.
The decrease in domestic revenue from TSG for the third quarter of 2019 as compared to the prior year period was due primarily to lower sales of replacement parts including lower sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT.
Internationally, TSG revenue decreased in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 due primarily to a decline of international consumable product sales of 77% and, to a lesser extent, a 6% decline in international sales of replacement parts and accessories.
For the third quarter of 2019, gross profit decreased $2.5 million, or 31%, due primarily to a 26% decline in sales during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2019.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).


part2.txt
Information regarding risk factors appears under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
In 2016, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) voted to depart from the European Union (“E.U.”), commonly known as “Brexit” and subsequently notified the European Council of its intention to leave the E.U.
The U.K. is currently negotiating the terms of Brexit, the negotiation period of which has now been extended up to January 31, 2020, unless further extension is agreed to by the parties.


