fls.txt



item1.txt
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 was derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date.
Effective January 1, 2018, our interface services team, which provides the design, development, implementation, and support services for all interfaces for data exchange from the CPSI applications and was previously considered a part of our product development division, has been integrated with our acute care client service team.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
We adopted this new accounting standard codified as Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and the related amendments ("new revenue standard") during the first quarter of 2018 and have applied it to all contracts using the modified retrospective method, pursuant to which the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard is recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings and impacted balance sheet line items as of January 1, 2018, the date of adoption.
The balance sheet impact of the deferred revenue related to these fees was an increase of $1.8 million as of the date of adoption.
Also impacting deferred revenue was a decrease of $0.6 million related to previous billings which no longer required deferred recognition as of the date of adoption.
The balance sheet impact of the prepaid assets was an increase of $3.8 million as of the date of adoption.
Due to the aforementioned changes in assets and liabilities related to the adoption of the new revenue standard, our deferred tax liability increased $0.6 million as of the date of adoption.
In total, the adoption of ASU 2014-09 resulted in a net increase in retained earnings of $2.0 million as of the date of adoption.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business, to assist an entity in evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2018, which will be effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2019.


item2.txt
Our companies currently support approximately 1,100 acute care facilities and approximately 3,500 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market.
Our TruBridge segment primarily consists of business management, consulting and managed IT services sales generated by TruBridge and the sale of the TruBridge revenue cycle management workflow and automation software.
Historically, we have primarily sought revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market, a strategy that has resulted in a ten-year compounded annual growth rate in legacy revenues (i.e., revenues related to our legacy Evident and TruBridge operations) of approximately 5.9% as of the end of our most recently completed fiscal year.
Important to our potential for continued long-term revenue growth is our ability to sell new and additional products and services to our existing customer base, including cross-selling opportunities presented with the acquisition of Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), the parent company of Healthland, AHT and Rycan Technologies, Inc. We believe that as our combined customer base grows, the demand for additional products and services, including business management, consulting and managed IT services, will also continue to grow, supporting further increases in recurring revenues.
Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on an ongoing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services.
For example, during the first quarter of 2018, we further integrated our acute care product lines into a combined client support group.
Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.
During 2017, total financing receivables increased by $15.5 million, which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.
We have experienced a substantial increase in the prevalence of such SaaS arrangements for new system installations and add-on sales to existing clients since 2015, a trend we expect to continue for the foreseeable future.
installation in exchange for increased recurring periodic revenues (reflected in system sales and support revenues) over the term of the SaaS arrangement.
While ongoing financial challenges facing healthcare organizations have impacted and are expected to continue to impact the community hospitals that comprise our target market, we believe that the reduced reimbursement under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "ARRA") for those providers failing to adopt qualifying EHRs will continue to support demand for healthcare information technology and will have a positive impact on our business prospects through at least 2018.
As a result of the announcement from CMS on August 2, 2018 of a final rule changing the attestation period for 2019 and 2020 to any continuous 90-day period instead of the previously-required full year attestation period, hospitals now have until October 1, 2019 to install compliant technology in order to meet the requirements of the program during 2019, compared to a deadline of January 1, 2019 under the previous rule.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we generated revenues of $208.1 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $198.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, an increase of 5% that is primarily attributed to TruBridge client growth.
Our net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $5.9 million to $10.0 million from the nine months ended September 30, 2017 as a result of revenue growth accompanied with improved gross margins of 53%, a 1% increase from the first nine months of 2017.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $3.5 million to $14.9 million provided from operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to a reduction of short-term liabilities and other changes in working capital.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.


