fls.txt



item1.txt
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2019, which is effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2020.
The Company enters into contractual obligations to sell perpetual software licenses, installation, conversion, training, hardware and software application support and hardware maintenance services to acute care and post-acute care community hospitals.
Payment is generally due upon delivery of the hardware to the client.
Revenue for support and maintenance services is recognized based on SSP, which is the renewal price, ratably over the life of the contract, which is generally three to five years.
•Subscriptions to third party content revenue is recognized as a separate performance obligation ratably over the subscription term based on SSP, which is cost plus a reasonable margin.
•Software as a Service ("SaaS") arrangements for EHR software and related conversion and training services are considered a single performance obligation.
Revenue is recognized on a monthly basis as the SaaS service is provided to the client over the contract term.
Payment is due monthly as services are performed.
Revenue is recognized ratably over the life of the software subscriptions as services are provided and at the point-in-time when implementations have been completed.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company and the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares, including awards under stock-based compensation arrangements.
The Company's unvested restricted stock awards (see Note 8) are considered participating securities under FASB Codification topic, Earnings Per Share, because they entitle holders to non-forfeitable rights to dividends until the awards vest or are forfeited.
The awards provide for an aggregate target of 92,386 shares, none of which have been included in the calculation of diluted EPS for the three months ended March 31, 2019 because the related threshold award performance level has not been achieved as of March 31, 2019.
As of March 31, 2019, there was $14.9 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the Plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years.


item2.txt
Our clients primarily consist of community hospitals with fewer than 200 acute care beds, with hospitals having fewer than 100 beds comprising approximately 98% of our acute care EHR client base.
Additionally, as we consider the long-term growth prospects of our business, we are seeking to further stabilize our revenues and cash flows and leverage TruBridge services as a growth agent in light of a relatively mature EHR marketplace.
As such, maintaining and growing recurring revenues are additional key components of our long-term growth strategy, aided by the aforementioned focus on customer retention, and include a renewed focus on driving demand for subscriptions for our existing technology solutions.
Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on a continuing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services, all of which contribute to recurring revenue growth.
For example, during the first quarter of 2018, we further integrated our acute care product lines into a combined client support group.
Despite these challenges, we believe healthcare information technology is often viewed as more strategically beneficial to hospitals than other possible purchases because the technology also plays an important role in healthcare by improving safety and efficiency and reducing costs.
Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.
These financing arrangements include short-term payment plans and longer-term lease financing through us or third-party financing companies.
During 2018, total financing receivables increased by $7.8 million which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.
This increase in financing arrangements was primarily due to two reasons.
We have experienced an increase in the prevalence of such SaaS arrangements for new system installations and add-on sales to existing clients since 2015, a trend we expect to continue for the foreseeable future.
As a result, the effect of this trend on the Company's financial statements is reduced system sales revenues during the period of installation in exchange for increased recurring periodic revenues (reflected in system sales and support revenues) over the term of the SaaS arrangement.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we generated revenues of $69.1 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $70.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, a decrease of 2% that is primarily attributed to new EHR installations that were smaller in size compared to the first quarter of 2018 partially offset by continued TruBridge client growth.
Our net income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased by $0.5 million to $3.4 million from the three months ended March 31, 2018 as a result of lower Acute Care EHR system sales and support revenue leading to a gross margin of 54%, a 1% decrease from the first three months of 2018.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk relates primarily to the potential change in the British Bankers Association London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR").


item4.txt
As of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.


part2.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities.


