fls.txt



item1.txt
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 was derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date.
This transition will work to create a consistent, personal, and convenient service experience for our clients characterized by transparent communication with prompt resolution.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and the related amendments ("new revenue standard") during the first quarter of 2018 and have applied it to all contracts using the modified retrospective method, pursuant to which the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard is recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings and impacted balance sheet line items as of January 1, 2018, the date of adoption.
The balance sheet impact of the deferred revenue related to these fees was an increase of $1.8 million as of the date of adoption.
The balance sheet impact of the prepaid assets was an increase of $3.8 million as of the date of adoption.
Due to the aforementioned changes in assets and liabilities related to the adoption of the new revenue standard, our deferred tax liability increased $0.6 million as of the date of adoption.
In total, the adoption of ASU 2014-09 resulted in a net increase in retained earnings of $2.0 million as of the date of adoption.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business, to assist an entity in evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2018, which will be effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2019.
The Company enters into contractual obligations to sell perpetual software licenses, installation, conversion, and training, hardware and software application support and hardware maintenance services to acute care and post-acute care community hospitals.
•Software as a Service ("SaaS") arrangements for EHR software and related conversion and training services are considered a single performance obligation.
Revenue is recognized on a monthly basis as the SaaS service is provided to the client over the contract term.


item2.txt
Our companies currently support approximately 1,100 acute care facilities and approximately 3,500 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market.
Our Acute Care EHR segment consists of acute care software solutions and support sales generated by Evident and Healthland.
Our TruBridge segment primarily consists of business management, consulting and managed IT services sales generated by TruBridge and the sale of Rycan's revenue cycle management workflow and automation software.
Historically, we have primarily sought revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market, a strategy that has resulted in a ten-year compounded annual growth rate in legacy revenues (i.e., revenues related to our legacy Evident and TruBridge operations) of approximately 5.9% as of the end of our most recently completed fiscal year.
We believe that as our combined customer base grows, the demand for additional products and services, including business management, consulting and managed IT services, will also continue to grow, supporting further increases in recurring revenues.
opportunities now available within the combined company.
Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on an ongoing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services.
For example, during the first quarter of 2018, we further integrated our acute care product lines into a combined client support group.
During the fourth quarter of 2017, TruBridge eliminated approximately $0.6 million per quarter of cloud hosting service costs for the HHI customer base by utilizing in-house resources.
Despite these challenges, we believe healthcare information technology is often viewed as more strategically beneficial to hospitals than other possible purchases because the technology also plays an important role in healthcare by improving safety and efficiency and reducing costs.
Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.
During 2017, total financing receivables increased by $15.5 million, which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.
The increase in financing arrangements is primarily due to two reasons.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Even disclosure controls and procedures determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance that their objectives are achieved.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.


