fls.txt



item1.txt
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 was derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2019, which is effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the implementation of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company enters into contractual obligations to sell perpetual software licenses, installation, conversion, training, hardware and software application support and hardware maintenance services to acute care and post-acute care community hospitals.
Revenue for support and maintenance services is recognized based on SSP, which is the renewal price, ratably over the life of the contract, which is generally three to five years.
•Software as a Service ("SaaS") arrangements for EHR software and related conversion and training services are considered a single performance obligation.
Revenue is recognized on a monthly basis as the SaaS service is provided to the client over the contract term.
Revenue from professional IT services is recognized as the services are performed based on SSP.
Payment is due monthly as services are performed.
Revenue is recognized ratably over the life of the software subscriptions as services are provided and at the point-in-time when implementations have been completed.
Consideration for the acquisition included cash (net of cash of the acquired entity) of $10.8 million (inclusive of seller's transaction expenses), plus a contingent earnout payment of up to $14.0 million tied to Get Real Health's earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA") (subject to certain pro-forma adjustments) for 2019.


item2.txt
Through much of our history, our strategy has been to achieve meaningful long-term revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market.
Additionally, as we consider the long-term growth prospects of our business, we are seeking to further stabilize our revenues and cash flows and leverage TruBridge services as a growth agent in light of a relatively mature EHR marketplace.
As such, maintaining and growing recurring revenues are additional key components of our long-term growth strategy, aided by the aforementioned focus on customer retention, and includes a renewed focus on driving demand for subscriptions for our existing technology solutions.
Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on a continuing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services, all of which contribute to recurring revenue growth.
For example, during the first quarter of 2018, we further integrated our acute care product lines into a combined client support group.
During 2018, total financing receivables increased by $7.8 million, which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.
First, meaningful use stage three ("MU3") installations are primarily financed through short-term payment plans and demand for such installation has increased since late 2017.
We have experienced an increase in the prevalence of such SaaS arrangements for new system installations and add-on sales to existing clients since 2015, a trend we expect to continue for the foreseeable future.
As a result, the effect of this trend on the Company's financial statements is reduced system sales revenues during the period of installation in exchange for increased recurring periodic revenues (reflected in system sales and support revenues) over the term of the SaaS arrangement.
In addition, during the first six months of 2019, we incurred approximately $0.4 million of pre-tax acquisition costs in connection with the acquisition of Get Real Health.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we generated revenues of $135.3 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $138.8 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018, a decrease of 3% that is primarily attributed to fewer MU3 installations as the MU3 deadline approaches partially offset by continued TruBridge client growth.
Our net income for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased by $0.8 million to $5.1 million from the six months ended June 30, 2018 as a result of a lower effective tax rate.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $9.6 million to $17.5 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to more advantageous changes in working capital, most notably as it relates to accounts receivable and financing receivables.
Total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $1.7 million, or 3%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $1.5 million, or 4%, compared to the second quarter of 2018.
Non-recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $1.6 million, or 17%, primarily due to a $1.9 million decrease in Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenues.


item3.txt



item4.txt
As of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.


part2.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities.


