Item 1. Financial Statements





The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.





The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.





The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.















The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.





The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.







Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



Description of Business





Throughout this report, the terms the "Company" and "CDW" refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.



Parent has two 100% owned subsidiaries, CDW LLC and CDW Finance Corporation. CDW LLC is an Illinois limited liability company that, together with its 100% owned subsidiaries, holds all material assets and conducts all business activities and operations of the Company. CDW Finance Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed for the sole purpose of acting as co-issuer of certain debt obligations as described in Note 13 (Supplemental Guarantor Information) and does not hold any material assets or engage in any business activities or operations.



Basis of Presentation



The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of September 30, 2019 and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial statements. Accordingly, certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (the "December 31, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements"). The significant accounting policies used in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements were applied on a basis consistent with those reflected in the December 31, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements. In the opinion of management, the Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments (consisting of a normal, recurring nature) necessary to present fairly the Company's financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in stockholders' equity as of the dates and for the periods indicated. The unaudited results of operations for such interim periods reported are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.



Principles of Consolidation



The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.



Use of Estimates



The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make use of certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported periods. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management believes are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates.



The notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the December 31, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements include a discussion of the significant accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. Except as noted below for the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases ("Topic 842"), there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.





Leases



The Company enters into operating lease contracts, as assessed at contract inception, primarily for real estate, data centers and equipment. On the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets, Operating lease assets are included in Operating lease right-of-use assets and Operating lease liabilities are included in Other current liabilities and Long-term operating lease liabilities. At the lease commencement date, the Company records Operating lease liabilities based on the present value of the future lease payments. In determining the present value of future lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date. For real estate and data center contracts, the Company accounts for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. For certain equipment leases, the Company applies a portfolio approach to account for the right-of-use asset and operating lease liability. In assessing the lease term, the Company includes options to renew only when it is reasonably certain that it will be exercised; a determination which is at the sole discretion of the Company. Generally, for leases with an initial term of 12 months or less, the Company has elected to not record a right-of-use asset and lease liability. For equipment leases used in revenue generating activities, the Company will record a right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases with a term of 12 months or less. The Company records lease expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term beginning on the commencement date.





Recent Accounting Pronouncements 



Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments



In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. The ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables. The estimate of expected credit losses will require considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses. The ASU will be adopted on January 1, 2020. The Company has established a cross-functional implementation team to analyze the effect of the ASU. The analysis includes identifying pools of receivables, evaluating and assessing estimation methodologies, assessing policy elections, and evaluating its business processes and internal controls to meet the ASU’s accounting, reporting and disclosure requirements. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the ASU will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.



Accounting for Leases



On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted and applied Topic 842 resulting in the recognition of right-of-use assets and additional lease liabilities of $81 million as of January 1, 2019, mainly related to operating leases for the Company's real estate portfolio. For additional details regarding the impact to the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets from adopting this standard, see Note 9 (Leases).





Acquisition



On February 1, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of all issued and outstanding shares of Scalar Decisions Inc. ("Scalar"), a leading technology solutions provider in Canada, for a total final purchase price of $88 million of which $13 million is deferred to satisfy potential indemnity obligations and is expected to be paid in the first quarter of 2021. The financial results of Scalar have been included in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. The financial results are included in the CDW Canada operating segment which is shown in an all other category ("Other") along with CDW UK. The purchase price allocation is preliminary and subject to revision as additional information about fair value of assets and liabilities becomes available.











Inventory Financing Agreements



The Company has entered into agreements with certain financial intermediaries to facilitate the purchase of inventory from various suppliers under certain terms and conditions, as described below. These amounts are classified separately as Accounts payable-inventory financing on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company does not incur any interest expense associated with these agreements as balances are paid when they are due.









The Senior Secured Asset-Based Revolving Credit Facility includes an inventory floorplan sub-facility that enables the Company to maintain an inventory financing agreement with a financial intermediary to facilitate the purchase of inventory from certain vendors on more favorable terms than offered directly by the vendors.





Contract Liabilities and Performance Obligations



The Company's contract liabilities consist of payments received from customers, or such consideration that is contractually due, in advance of providing the product or performing services. The Company's contract liabilities are reported in a net position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the contract liability balance was $212 million and $178 million, respectively. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $117 million and $153 million, respectively, related to its contract liabilities.



A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. The following table represents the total transaction price for the remaining performance obligations as of September 30, 2019 related to noncancelable contracts longer than 12 months in duration that is expected to be recognized over future periods.







Financial Instruments



The Company's indebtedness creates interest rate risk on its variable-rate debt. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate risk. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.





The Company has interest rate cap agreements that entitle it to payments from the counterparty of the amount, if any, by which three-month London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") exceeds the strike rates of the caps during the agreement period in exchange for an upfront premium. During 2019, the Company entered into interest rate cap agreements with a combined notional value of $1.2 billion resulting in premiums paid to the counterparties of $6 million.







The fair values of the Company's interest rate cap agreements are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The valuation of the interest rate cap agreements is derived by using a discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash receipts that would occur if variable interest rates rise above the strike rates of the caps. This analysis reflects the contractual terms of the interest rate cap agreements, including the period to maturity, and uses observable market-based inputs, including LIBOR curves and implied volatilities. The Company also incorporates insignificant credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect the respective counterparty's nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. The counterparty credit spreads are based on publicly available credit information obtained from a third-party credit data provider. For additional details, see Note 7 (Long-Term Debt).



The interest rate cap agreements are designated as cash flow hedges. The changes in the fair value of derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss and are subsequently reclassified into Interest expense in the period when the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The Company recorded an insignificant loss and a loss of $13 million, net of tax, into Accumulated other comprehensive loss for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively. The Company recorded a loss of $1 million and a gain of $3 million, net of tax, into Accumulated other comprehensive loss for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company reclassified an insignificant amount and $2 million, respectively, from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings within Interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company reclassified $1 million and $3 million, respectively, from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings within Interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The Company expects to reclassify $7 million from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings within Interest expense, net during the next 12 months.







Long-Term Debt









See Note 14 (Subsequent Events).



As of September 30, 2019, the Company is in compliance with the covenants under the various credit agreements and indentures.



Credit Facilities



The Company has a variable rate CDW UK revolving credit facility that is denominated in British pounds. As of September 30, 2019, the Company could have borrowed up to an additional £50 million ($61 million at September 30, 2019) under the CDW UK revolving credit facility.



The Company also has a variable rate senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Loan") that is denominated in US dollars. The Revolving Loan is used by the Company for borrowings, issuances of letters of credit and floorplan financing. As of September 30, 2019, the Revolving Loan had less than $1 million of undrawn letters of credit, $356 million reserved for the floorplan sub-facility and a borrowing base of $2.2 billion, which is based on the amount of eligible inventory and accounts receivable balances as of August 31, 2019. As of September 30, 2019, the Company could have borrowed up to an additional $1.1 billion under the Revolving Loan.



The Revolving Loan is collateralized by a first priority interest in inventory (excluding inventory to the extent collateralized under the inventory financing arrangements as described in Note 4 (Inventory Financing Agreements)), deposits and accounts receivable, and by a second priority interest in substantially all other US assets.





Term Loans



The CDW UK term loan has a variable interest rate. The Company is required to make annual principal installments of £5 million ($6 million at September 30, 2019), with the remaining principal amount due at the maturity date.



The CDW UK term loan agreement imposes restrictions on CDW UK's ability to transfer funds to the Company through the payment of dividends, repayment of intercompany loans, advances or subordinated debt that require, among other things, the maintenance of a minimum net leverage ratio. As of September 30, 2019, the amount of restricted payment capacity under the CDW UK term loan was £134 million ($165 million at September 30, 2019).



The senior secured term loan facility (the "Term Loan") has a variable interest rate, which has effectively been capped through the use of interest rate caps (see Note 6 (Financial Instruments)). The interest rate disclosed in the table above represents the variable interest rates in effect for September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company is required to pay quarterly principal installments of $4 million with the remaining principal amount due at the maturity date. As of September 30, 2019, the amount of CDW's restricted payment capacity under the Term Loan was $1.7 billion.



The Term Loan is collateralized by a second priority interest in substantially all inventory (excluding inventory to the extent collateralized under the inventory financing arrangements as described in Note 4 (Inventory Financing Agreements), deposits and accounts receivable, and by a first priority interest in substantially all other US assets.



Unsecured Senior Notes



The 2024 Senior Notes and 2025 Senior Notes have a fixed interest rate, for which interest is paid semi-annually.



On September 26, 2019, the Company completed the issuance of $600 million aggregate principal amount of 4.25% Senior Notes due 2028 at par. The 2028 Senior Notes will mature on April 1, 2028 and bear interest at a rate of 4.25% per annum, payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing on April 1, 2020. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2028 Senior Notes were primarily used to redeem all of the remaining $525 million aggregate principal amount of the 2023 Senior Notes at a redemption price of 102.5% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, and to pay fees and expenses related to the issuance and redemption. The redemption date was October 12, 2019. On the same date, the indenture governing the 2023 Senior Notes was satisfied and discharged. 



Fair Value



The fair values of the Senior Notes were estimated using quoted market prices for identical liabilities that are traded in over-the-counter secondary markets that are not considered active. The fair value of the Term Loan was estimated using dealer quotes for identical liabilities in markets that are not considered active. The Senior Notes, Term Loan and CDW UK term loan are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. The carrying value of the Revolving Loan and CDW UK revolving credit facility approximate fair value if there are outstanding borrowings. 









Income Taxes



Income tax expense was $59 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $55 million for the same period of the prior year. The effective tax rate, expressed by calculating the income tax expense as a percentage of Income before income taxes, was 22.7% and 22.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to state income taxes partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation. 



Income tax expense was $163 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $150 million for the same period of the prior year. The effective tax rate was 22.8% and 23.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 





and 2018, respectively, and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to state income taxes partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation. 





Leases



The Company has operating leases primarily for real estate, data centers and equipment. Lease terms range from 1 year to 17 years.





















As of September 30, 2019, the Company has an additional operating lease commitment that has not yet commenced of $99 million. This operating lease is expected to commence in 2019 with a lease term of 17 years.





Earnings Per Share



The numerator for both basic and diluted earnings per share is Net income. The denominator for basic earnings per share is the weighted-average shares outstanding during the period.













Commitments and Contingencies



The Company is party to various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of its business, which include commercial, intellectual property, employment, tort and other litigation matters. The Company is also subject to audit by federal, state, international, national, provincial and local authorities, and by various partners, group purchasing organizations and customers, including government agencies, relating to purchases and sales under various contracts. In addition, the Company is subject to indemnification claims under various contracts. From time to time, certain customers of the Company file voluntary petitions for reorganization or liquidation under the US bankruptcy laws or similar laws of the jurisdictions for the Company's business activities outside of the US. In such cases, certain pre-petition payments received by the Company could be considered preference items and subject to return to the bankruptcy administrator.



As of September 30, 2019, the Company does not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that any material loss exceeding the amounts already recognized for these proceedings and matters, if any, has been incurred. However, the ultimate resolutions of these proceedings and matters are inherently unpredictable. As such, the Company's financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected in any particular period by the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these proceedings or matters.







Segment Information 





During the first quarter of 2019, the Company evaluated its methodology for allocating certain depreciation and amortization expenses to each of its segments. The evaluation resulted in a revision to the allocation of depreciation and amortization expenses from Headquarters to the Company’s reportable segments, effective January 1, 2019. The prior period results have been recast to reflect these changes and present comparable information.











Geographic Areas and Revenue Mix



































The following table presents Net sales by major category for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. Categories are based upon internal classifications.











Includes items such as delivery charges to customers.







Supplemental Guarantor Information



The Senior Notes are guaranteed by Parent and each of CDW LLC's direct and indirect, 100% owned, domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantor Subsidiaries"). All guarantees by Parent and the Guarantor Subsidiaries are and were joint and several, and full and unconditional; provided that guarantees by the Guarantor Subsidiaries are subject to certain customary release provisions contained in the indentures governing the Senior Notes. CDW LLC's 100% owned foreign subsidiaries, CDW International Holdings Limited, which is comprised of CDW UK and CDW Canada (together the "Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries"), do not guarantee the Senior Notes. CDW LLC and CDW Finance Corporation, as co-issuers, are 100% owned by Parent and each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries are, directly or indirectly, 100% owned by CDW LLC.



The following tables set forth Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, Consolidating Statements of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, Condensed Consolidating Statements of Comprehensive Income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, and Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, in accordance with Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X. The consolidating financial information includes the accounts of CDW Corporation (the "Parent Guarantor"), which has no independent assets or operations, the accounts of CDW LLC (the "Subsidiary Issuer"), the combined accounts of the Guarantor Subsidiaries, the combined accounts of the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries, and the accounts of CDW Finance Corporation (the "Co-Issuer") for the periods indicated. The information is prepared on the same basis as the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.

















































Subsequent Events



On October 11, 2019, CDW extended the maturity date of the existing Term Loan to October 2026.



Item 1. Legal Proceedings



The information set forth in Note 11 (Commitments and Contingencies) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 "Financial Statements", of this report is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 1A. Risk Factors



See "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.



