 The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of risk and uncertainties, including those set forth under the heading “Forward Looking Statements” and elsewhere in this report and those set forth in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Statements in this report regarding future events or conditions, including but not limited to statements regarding industry prospects and the Company’s expected financial position, results of operations, business and financing plans, are forward-looking statements. These statements can be identified by forward-looking words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” and “continue” or similar words.  

 Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Substantial risks and uncertainties unknown at this time could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, 

 The Company operates in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict every risk factor, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of all such risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.  

 Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  

