fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of j2 Global and its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with instructions for Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
It is suggested that these financial statements be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report (Form 10-K) filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018. j2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect.
j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
The Company has made an accounting policy election to exclude from the measurement of the transaction price all taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are (i) both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction and (ii) collected by the Company from a customer.
j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
The Company has concluded that, as a limited partner, although the obligations to absorb losses or benefit from the gains is not insignificant, the Company does not have “power” over OCV because it does not have the ability to direct the significant decisions which impact the economics of OCV.
j2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance.
As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
As of June 30, 2018, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to j2 Global.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.


item2.txt
For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
◦Sustain growth or profitability, particularly in light of an uncertain U.S. or worldwide economy and the related impact on customer acquisition and retention rates, customer usage levels, and credit and debit card payment declines; j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, “the Company”, “our”, “us” or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services.
Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
The Cloud Services segment also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period to period.
The main focus of our Cloud Services offerings is to reduce or eliminate costs, increase sales and enhance productivity, mobility, business continuity and security of our customers as the technologies and devices they use evolve over time.
As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to enhance our existing offerings and offer new services to continue to satisfy the evolving needs of our customers.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition to the other information set forth in this report, before deciding to invest in j2 Global or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “10-K Risk Factors”) as well as in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or to be filed by us in 2018.
The SEC staff acknowledged the challenges companies face incorporating the effects of tax reform by their financial reporting deadlines and issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Additionally, the tax project initiated by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) on Base Erosion and Profit Sharing (“BEPS”) and other similar initiatives could adversely affect our worldwide effective tax rate.
With the finalization of specific actions contained within the OECD’s BEPS study, many OECD countries have acknowledged their intention to implement the actions and update their local tax laws.


