The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with instructions for Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
j2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance.
As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
As of March 31, 2018, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
◦Sustain growth or profitability, particularly in light of an uncertain U.S. or worldwide economy and the related impact on customer acquisition and retention rates, customer usage levels and credit and debit card payment declines; j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, “the Company”, “our”, “us” or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services.
Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
The Cloud Services segment also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period to period.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates, except for changes relating to our adoption of authoritative guidance associated with revenue recognition.Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.