item1.txt
The Company’s results for the three and six-month periods ended March 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire 2019 fiscal year.
On October 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606).
We adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective transition method applied to contracts that were not substantially complete at the end of fiscal year 2018.
We recorded a $4.2 million adjustment to increase retained earnings to reflect the cumulative impact of adopting this standard at the beginning of fiscal year 2019, primarily related to certain long-term contracts our Filtration and Technical Packaging segments have that converted to the cost-to-cost method for revenue recognition.
A reconciliation of the financial statement line items impacted for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 under ASC 606 to the prior accounting standards is provided in Note 14.
Revenue is recognized when control of the goods or services promised under the contract is transferred to the customer either at a point in time (e.g., upon delivery) or over time (e.g., as we perform under the contract).
We account for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights and payment terms of the parties are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable.
Contracts are reviewed to determine whether there is one or multiple performance obligations.
A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct good or service to a customer and represents the unit of accounting for revenue recognition.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the expected consideration, or the transaction price, is allocated to each performance obligation identified in the contract based on the relative standalone selling price of each performance obligation.
Revenue is then recognized for the transaction price allocated to the performance obligation when control of the promised goods or services underlying the performance obligation is transferred.
The Company does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of significant financing components based on the expectation that the period between when the Company transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
Arrangements with customers that include payment terms extending beyond one year are not significant.
Approximately 52% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 19% of consolidated revenues) are accounted for over time as the product does not have an alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for costs incurred plus a reasonable margin or the inventory is owned by the customer.
The related contracts are primarily cost-plus or fixed price contracts related to the design, development and manufacture of complex fluid control products, quiet valves, manifolds, shock and vibration dampening, thermal insulation and systems primarily for the commercial aerospace and military (U.S. Government) markets.
The contracts may contain multiple products, which are capable of being distinct as the customer could benefit from each product on its own or together with other readily available resources.
Therefore, each product is distinct in context of the contract and will be accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
Contracts with the U.S. Government generally contain clauses that provide lien rights to work-in-process along with clauses that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process.
Due to the continuous transfer of control to the U.S. Government, we recognize revenue over the time that we perform under the contract.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for the commercial and military contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or service to be provided.
We generally use the cost-to-cost method to measure progress for our Filtration segment contracts the rate at which costs are incurred to fulfill a contract best depicts the transfer of control to the customer.
Under this measure, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation, and revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred based on an estimated profit margin.
Under the typical payment terms of our long term fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments.
Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer billing, these contracts will often result in revenue recognized in excess of billings and billings in excess of costs incurred, which we present as contract assets and contract liabilities, respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
For short term fixed price and cost-type contracts, we are generally paid within a short period of time.
For contracts where revenue is recognized over time, we generally recognize changes in estimated contract revenues, costs and profits using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting.
This method recognizes the cumulative effect of changes on current and prior periods with the impact of the change from inception-to-date recorded in the current period.
Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable.
Approximately 75% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 17% of consolidated revenues) are recorded over time as the product does not have an alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for costs incurred plus a reasonable margin.
The goods and services related to each installed test chamber are not distinct due to the significant amount of integration provided and each installed chamber is accounted for as a single performance obligation.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for these contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products and service to be provided.
We use milestones to measure progress for our Test segment contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
For arrangements that are accounted for under this guidance, the Company estimates profit as the difference between total revenue and total estimated cost of a contract and recognizes these revenues and costs based primarily on contract milestones.
The transaction price for our contracts represents our best estimate of the consideration we will receive and includes assumptions regarding variable consideration as applicable.
Under the typical payment terms of our fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments.
Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer billing, these contracts result in revenue recognized in excess of billings and billings in excess of costs incurred, which we present as contract assets and contract liabilities, respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
For contracts where revenue is recognized over time, we generally recognize changes in estimated contract revenues, costs and profits using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting.
Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable.
Approximately 20% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 6% of consolidated revenues) are recognized over time as services are performed.
The related contracts contain a bundle of goods and services that are integrated in the context of the contract.
Therefore, the goods and services are not distinct and the Company has a single performance obligation.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for these contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products and service to be provided.
We will recognize revenue as a series of distinct services based on each day of providing services (straight-line over the contract term) for our USG segment contracts.
The transaction price for our contracts represents our best estimate of the consideration we will receive and includes assumptions regarding variable consideration as applicable.
Under the typical payment terms of our service contracts, the customer pays us in advance of when services are performed.
Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer payment, which is typically received upon commencement of the contract, these contracts result in deferred revenue, which we present as contract liabilities, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Included in this category, approximately 8% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 2% of consolidated revenues) are recognized based on the terms of the software contract.
For contracts that transfer a software license to the customer, revenue will be recognized at a point in time.
These type of software contracts represent a right to use the software, or a functional license, in which revenue should be recognized upon transfer of the license.
For contracts in software as a service (SaaS) arrangements, revenue will be recognized over time.
We will recognize revenue based on each day of providing access (straight-line over the contract term).
The transaction price for our contracts represent our best estimate of the consideration we will receive and includes assumptions regarding variable consideration as applicable.
Under the typical payment terms of our software contracts, the customer pays us in advance of when services are performed.
Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer payment, these contracts result in deferred revenue, which we present as contract liabilities, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
For contracts where revenue is recognized over time, we generally recognize changes in estimated contract revenues, costs and profits using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting.
Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable.
Contract assets arise from contracts when revenue is recognized over time and the amount of revenue recognized, including our estimate of variable consideration that has been included in the transaction price, exceeds the amount billed to the customer.
These amounts are included in contract assets until the right to payment is no longer conditional on events other than the passage of time.
These contract assets are reclassified to receivables when the right to consideration becomes unconditional.
Contract liabilities include deposits, deferred revenue, upfront payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized.
The Company classified $20.0 million as the current portion of long-term debt as of March 31, 2019, as the Company intends to repay this amount within the next twelve month period; however, the Company has no contractual obligation to repay such amount during the next twelve month period.
The Company reduced the valuation allowance for excess foreign tax credits by $2.3 million and recorded an amended return receivable of $0.2 million which favorably impacted the second quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 12.1% and 5.8%, respectively.
In the first quarter of 2018, the Company recorded a $2.3 million provisional estimate of the income tax effects of the future repatriation of the cumulative earnings of its foreign subsidiaries which unfavorably impacted the year-to-date effective tax rate by 8.9%.
This favorable adjustment, net of the $0.3 million unfavorable impact to the 2017 Domestic Production Deduction, favorably impacted the second quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 5.8% and 3.0%, respectively.
The income tax expense in the second quarter and first six months of 2018 was also unfavorably impacted by the cancellation of debt income triggered by the dissolution of a foreign subsidiary increasing the second quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 1.5% and 0.8%, respectively.
The Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including forward contracts and swaps, to manage these risks.
In 2018, the Company entered into three interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150 million to hedge some of its exposure to variability in future LIBOR-based interest payments on variable rate debt.
In addition, the Company’s Canadian subsidiary Morgan Schaffer enters into foreign exchange contracts to manage foreign currency risk as a portion of their revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars.
·Level 2 – inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument.
Assets and liabilities related to our contracts with customers are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
At March 31, 2019, contract assets and liabilities totaled $100.5 million and $55.5 million, respectively.
Upon adoption of ASC 606 on October 1, 2018, contract assets and liabilities related to our contracts with customers were $87 million and $51 million, respectively.
During the first six months of 2019, we recognized approximately $30 million in revenues that were included in the contract liabilities balance at the adoption date.


item2.txt
In the second quarter of 2019, net sales of $193.9 million were $19.1 million, or 10.9%, higher than the $174.8 million in the second quarter of 2018.
In the first six months of 2019, net sales of $376.5 million were $28.2 million, or 8.1%, higher than the $348.3 million in the first six months of 2018.
The increase in net sales in the second quarter of 2019 as compared to the second quarter of 2018 was due to a $13.7 million increase in the Filtration segment, a $2.2 million increase in the USG segment, a $2.1 million increase in the Test segment and a $1.2 million increase in the Technical Packaging segment.
The increase in net sales in the first six months of 2019 as compared to the first six months of 2018 was due to a $19.9 million increase in the Filtration segment, a $2.3 million increase in the USG segment, a $5.8 million increase in the Test segment and a $0.3 million increase in the Technical Packaging segment.
In the second quarter of 2019, net sales of $79.5 million were $13.7 million, or 20.8%, higher than the $65.8 million in the second quarter of 2018.
In the first six months of 2019, net sales of $145.7 million were $19.9 million, or 15.8%, higher than the $125.8 million in the first six months of 2018.
The increase in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018 was mainly due to a $4.8 million increase in net sales at Crissair due to higher aerospace shipments, a $3.5 million increase in net sales at PTI due to higher aerospace assembly and element shipments, a $2.3 million increase in net sales at VACCO due to higher shipments of defense spares, a $1.8 million increase in net sales at Mayday due to higher aerospace shipments and a $1.3 million increase in net sales at Westland due to timing of shipments.
The increase in the first six months of 2019 compared to the first six months of 2018 was primarily due to an $8.0 million increase in net sales at Crissair due to higher aerospace shipments, a $5.0 million increase in net sales at PTI due to higher aerospace assembly and element shipments, a $3.6 million increase in net sales at Westland due to timing of shipments on government programs and a $3.3 million increase in net sales at Mayday due to higher aerospace shipments.
In the second quarter of 2019, net sales of $42.9 million were $2.1 million, or 5.1%, higher than the $40.8 million in the second quarter of 2018.
In the first six months of 2019, net sales of $84.2 million were $5.9 million, or 7.5%, higher than the $78.3 million in the first six months of 2018.
The increase in the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of 2018 was primarily due to higher sales from the segment’s U.S. operations due to the timing of test and measurement chamber projects.
In the second quarter of 2019, net sales of $22.7 million were $1.2 million, or 5.6%, higher than the $21.5 million in the second quarter of 2018.
In the first six months of 2019, net sales of $41.9 million were $0.2 million, or 0.6%, higher than the $41.7 million in the first six months of 2018.
The increase in the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of 2018 was primarily due to the increase in net sales from TEQ due to increased shipments to new customers.
The Company received new orders totaling $231.7 million in the second quarter of 2019 compared to $187.3 million in the second quarter of 2018.
Of the new orders received in the second quarter of 2019, $100.8 million related to Filtration products, $57.6 million related to Test products, $51.0 million related to USG products, and $22.3 million related to Technical Packaging products.
The Company received new orders totaling $429.8 million in the first six months of 2019 compared to $387.8 million in the first six months of 2018.
Amortization of intangible assets was $4.6 million and $9.3 million for the second quarter and first six months of 2019, respectively, compared to $4.6 million and $9.0 million for the corresponding periods of 2018.
Other income, net, was $4.7 million in the first six months of 2019 compared to other expenses, net, of $1.6 million in the first six months of 2018.
The principal component in other income, net, in the first six months of 2019 was a gain of approximately $8 million on the sale of the Doble Watertown, MA building and land, partially offset by certain restructuring activities at Doble, PTI, VACCO and Plastique and losses on derivative instruments.
The principal components in other expenses, net, in the first six months of 2018 were $2.1 million of charges related to the USG segment restructuring activities as mentioned above, partially offset by gains on derivative instruments.
EBIT in the second quarter of 2019 was $5.6 million (13.0% of net sales) compared to $5.3 million (13.0% of net sales) in the second quarter of 2018.
EBIT in the first six months of 2019 was $8.9 million (10.5% of net sales) compared to $7.9 million (10.1% of net sales) in the first six months of 2018.
The increase in EBIT in the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year periods was primarily due to the increased sales volumes mainly from the segment’s U.S. operations.
EBIT in the second quarter of 2019 was $8.8 million (17.9% of net sales) compared to $5.6 million (12.0% of net sales) in the second quarter of 2018.
EBIT in the first six months of 2019 was $30.3 million (28.9% of net sales) compared to EBIT of $16.3 million (15.9% of net sales) in the first six months of 2018.
The increase in EBIT in the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of 2018 was mainly due to the gain on sale of the Doble Watertown facility of approximately $8 million in the first quarter of 2019, as well as an increase in EBIT from Morgan Schaffer and Manta product lines partially offset by a decrease in EBIT from NRG due to market softness.
EBIT in the second quarter of 2019 was $1.6 million (7.1% of net sales) compared to $1.9 million (8.8% of net sales) in the second quarter of 2018.
EBIT in the first six months of 2019 was $1.7 million (4.1% of net sales) compared to $2.9 million (6.8% of net sales) in the first six months of 2018.
The decrease in EBIT in the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of 2018 was mainly due to the restructuring charges incurred related to the Plastique facility consolidation, ($0.4 million in the second quarter of 2019 and $0.7 million in the first six months of 2019).
Interest expense was $1.9 million and $3.8 million in the second quarter and first six months of 2019, respectively, and $2.0 million and $4.2 million in the corresponding periods of 2018.
The decrease in interest expense in the first six months of 2019 compared to the first six months of 2018 was mainly due to lower average outstanding borrowings ($215 million compared to $264 million).
The income tax expense for the first six months of 2019 was $8.5 million compared to income tax benefit of $18.3 million for the first six months of 2018.
The Company reduced the valuation allowance for excess foreign tax credits by $2.3 million and recorded an amended return receivable of $0.2 million which favorably impacted the second quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 12.1% and 5.8%, respectively.
Contract assets increased $47.5 million in the first six months of 2019 mainly due to the adoption of ASC 606 within the Filtration segment.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $17.0 million and $33.5 million in the first six months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increase in the first six months of 2019 was mainly due to a $7.1 million facility expansion at TEQ.
In addition, the Company incurred expenditures for capitalized software of $4.5 million and $4.6 million in the first six months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.


