item1.txt
The Company’s results for the three-month period ended December 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire 2019 fiscal year.
On October 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606).
We adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective transition method applied to contracts that were not substantially complete at the end of fiscal year 2018.
We recorded a $5.5 million adjustment to increase retained earnings to reflect the cumulative impact of adopting this standard at the beginning of fiscal year 2019, primarily related to certain long-term contracts our Filtration and Technical Packaging segments have that converted to the cost-to-cost method for revenue recognition.
A reconciliation of the financial statement line items impacted for the three months ended December 31, 2018 under ASC 606 to the prior accounting standards is provided in Note 14.
Revenue is recognized when control of the goods or services promised under the contract is transferred to the customer either at a point in time (e.g., upon delivery) or over time (e.g., as we perform under the contract).
We account for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights and payment terms of the parties are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable.
Contracts are reviewed to determine whether there is one or multiple performance obligations.
A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct good or service to a customer and represents the unit of accounting for revenue recognition.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the expected consideration, or the transaction price, is allocated to each performance obligation identified in the contract based on the relative standalone selling price of each performance obligation.
Revenue is then recognized for the transaction price allocated to the performance obligation when control of the promised goods or services underlying the performance obligation is transferred.
The Company does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of significant financing components based on the expectation that the period between when the Company transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
Arrangements with customers that include payment terms extending beyond one year are not significant.
Approximately 52% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 19% of consolidated revenues) are accounted for over time as the products do not have alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for costs incurred plus a reasonable margin or the inventory is owned by the customer.
The related contracts are primarily cost-plus or fixed price contracts related to the design, development and manufacture of complex fluid control products, quiet valves, manifolds, shock and vibration dampening, thermal insulation and systems primarily for the commercial aerospace and military (U.S. Government) markets.
The contracts may contain multiple products, which are capable of being distinct as the customer could benefit from each product on its own or together with other readily available resources.
Therefore, each product is distinct in context of the contract and will be accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
Contracts with the U.S. Government generally contain clauses that provide lien rights to work-in-process along with clauses that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process.
Due to the continuous transfer of control to the U.S. Government, we recognize revenue over the time that we perform under the contract.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for the commercial and military contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or service to be provided.
We generally use the cost-to-cost method to measure progress for our Filtration segment contracts the rate at which costs are incurred to fulfill a contract best depicts the transfer of control to the customer.
Under this measure, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation, and revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred based on an estimated profit margin.
Under the typical payment terms of our long term fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments.
Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer billing, these contracts will often result in revenue recognized in excess of billings and billings in excess of costs incurred, which we present as contract assets and contract liabilities, respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
For short term fixed price and cost-type contracts, we are generally paid within a short period of time.
For contracts where revenue is recognized over time, we generally recognize changes in estimated contract revenues, costs and profits using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting.
Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable.
Approximately 75% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 17% of consolidated revenues) are recorded over time as the product does not have an alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for costs incurred plus a reasonable margin.
Products accounted for under this guidance include the construction and installation of complex test chambers to a buyer’s specifications that provide its customers with the ability to measure and contain magnetic, electromagnetic and acoustic energy.
The goods and services related to each installed test chamber are not distinct due to the significant amount of integration provided and each installed chamber is accounted for as a single performance obligation.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for these contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products and service to be provided.
We use milestones to measure progress for our Test segment contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
For arrangements that are accounted for under this guidance, the Company estimates profit as the difference between total revenue and total estimated cost of a contract and recognizes these revenues and costs based primarily on contract milestones.
The transaction price for our contracts represents our best estimate of the consideration we will receive and includes assumptions regarding variable consideration as applicable.
Under the typical payment terms of our fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments.
Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer billing, these contracts result in revenue recognized in excess of billings and billings in excess of costs incurred, which we present as contract assets and contract liabilities, respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
For contracts where revenue is recognized over time, we generally recognize changes in estimated contract revenues, costs and profits using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting.
Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable.
Approximately 20% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 6% of consolidated revenues) are recognized over time as services are performed.
The related contracts contain a bundle of goods and services that are integrated in the context of the contract.
Therefore, the goods and services are not distinct and the Company has a single performance obligation.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for these contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products and service to be provided.
We will recognize revenue as a series of distinct services based on each day of providing services (straight-line over the contract term) for our USG segment contracts.
The transaction price for our contracts represents our best estimate of the consideration we will receive and includes assumptions regarding variable consideration as applicable.
Under the typical payment terms of our service contracts, the customer pays us in advance of when services are performed.
Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer payment, which is typically received upon commencement of the contract, these contracts result in deferred revenue, which we present as contract liabilities, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Included in this category, approximately 8% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 2% of consolidated revenues) are recognized based on the terms of the software contract.
For contracts that transfer a software license to the customer, revenue will be recognized at a point in time.
These type of software contracts represent a right to use the software, or a functional license, in which revenue should be recognized upon transfer of the license.
For contracts in software as a service (SaaS) arrangements, revenue will be recognized over time.
We will recognize revenue based on each day of providing access (straight-line over the contract term).
The transaction price for our contracts represent our best estimate of the consideration we will receive and includes assumptions regarding variable consideration as applicable.
Under the typical payment terms of our software contracts, the customer pays us in advance of when services are performed.
Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer payment, these contracts result in deferred revenue, which we present as contract liabilities, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
For contracts where revenue is recognized over time, we generally recognize changes in estimated contract revenues, costs and profits using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting.
Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable.
Contract assets arise from contracts when revenue is recognized over time and the amount of revenue recognized, including our estimate of variable consideration that has been included in the transaction price, exceeds the amount billed to the customer.
These amounts are included in contract assets until the right to payment is no longer conditional on events other than the passage of time.
These contract assets are reclassified to receivables when the right to consideration becomes unconditional.
Contract liabilities include deposits, deferred revenue, upfront payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized.
The Company recorded a provisional charge for the Transition Tax of $3.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2018 and this charge is complete as of December 31, 2018 with minimal changes.
Provisions under the TCJA that became effective for the Company in the current fiscal year include a further reduction in the U.S. statutory rate to 21%, a new minimum tax on global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”), the benefit of the deduction for foreign-derived intangible income (“FDII”), and changes to IRC Section 162(m) related to the deductibility of executive compensation.
The Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including forward contracts and swaps, to manage these risks.
In addition, the Company’s Canadian subsidiary Morgan Schaffer enters into foreign exchange contracts to manage foreign currency risk as a portion of their revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars.
·Level 2 – inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument.
The Company has estimated the fair value of its financial instruments as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018 using available market information or other appropriate valuation methodologies.
Assets and liabilities related to our contracts with customers are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
At December 31, 2018, contract assets and liabilities totaled $94.1 million and $53.3 million, respectively.
Upon adoption of ASC 606 on October 1, 2018, contract assets and liabilities related to our contracts with customers were $87 million and $51 million, respectively.
During the first quarter of 2019, we recognized approximately $20 million in revenues that were included in the contract liabilities balance at the adoption date.


item2.txt
Net sales increased $9.1 million, or 5.2%, to $182.6 million in the first quarter of 2019 from $173.5 million in the first quarter of 2018.
The increase in net sales in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018 was due to a $6.2 million increase in the Filtration segment, a $3.8 million increase in the Test segment and a $0.1 million increase in the USG segment, partially offset by a $0.9 million decrease in the Technical Packaging segment.
In the first quarter of 2019, net sales of $66.2 million were $6.2 million, or 10.3%, higher than the $60.0 million in the first quarter of 2018.
The sales increase in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was mainly due to a $3.2 million increase in net sales at Crissair due to higher aerospace shipments, a $2.3 million increase in net sales at Westland due to timing of revenue on government programs, a $1.5 million increase in net sales at PTI due to higher aerospace assembly shipments, a $1.5 million increase in net sales at Mayday due to higher aerospace shipments, partially offset by a $2.3 million decrease in net sales at VACCO due to lower revenue from its space products.
In the first quarter of 2019, net sales of $41.3 million were $3.8 million, or 10.0%, higher than the $37.5 million in the first quarter of 2018.
The increase in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to higher sales from the segment’s U.S. operations due to the timing of test and measurement chamber projects.
In the first quarter of 2019, net sales of $55.9 million were $0.1 million, or 0.2% higher than the $55.8 million in the first quarter of 2018.
The increase in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was mainly due to net sales increases from Morgan Schaffer and the Vanguard Instruments product line and new products and software solutions at Doble partially offset by a decrease in net sales at NRG due to softness in the renewable energy market.
In the first quarter of 2019, net sales of $19.2 million were $0.9 million, or 4.7%, lower than the $20.2 million in the first quarter of 2018.
The decrease in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the decrease in net sales from Plastique driven by timing of projects.
The Company received new orders totaling $198.1 million in the first quarter of 2019 compared to $200.5 million in the first quarter of 2018.
Amortization of intangible assets was $4.7 million and $4.4 million for the first quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increase in amortization expense in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was mainly due to an increase in amortization of intangibles related to the Manta acquisition.
Other income, net, was $7.1 million in the first quarter of 2019 compared to other expenses, net, of $0.2 million in the first quarter of 2018.
The principal component in other income, net, in the first quarter of 2019 was a gain of approximately $8 million on the sale of the Doble Watertown, MA building and land.
EBIT in the first quarter of 2019 was $3.3 million (8.0% of net sales) compared to $2.6 million (6.9% of net sales) in the first quarter of 2018.
The increase in EBIT in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the increased sales volumes mainly from the segment’s U.S. operations.
EBIT in the first quarter of 2019 was $21.5 million (38.6% of net sales) compared to $10.7 million (19.1% of net sales) in the first quarter of 2018.
The increase in EBIT in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was mainly due to the gain on sale of the Doble Watertown facility of approximately $8 million as well as an increase in EBIT from Morgan Schaffer and the Vanguard Instruments and Manta product lines.
EBIT in the first quarter of 2019 was $0.1 million (0.6% of net sales) compared to $1.0 million (4.8% of net sales) in the first quarter of 2018.
The decrease in EBIT in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was mainly due to the decrease in sales volumes at Plastique.
In addition, EBIT in the first quarter of 2019 included $0.3 million of restructuring charges related to the Plastique facility consolidation, which were recorded in the first quarter of 2019.
The increase in Corporate costs in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was mainly due to the $1.2 million of losses on derivative instruments recorded in the first quarter of 2019.
Interest expense was $1.9 million and $2.2 million in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The decrease in interest expense in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018 was mainly due to lower average outstanding borrowings ($212 million compared to $265.7 million), partially offset by higher average interest rates (3.3% vs.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $8.1 million and $17.8 million in the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018 was driven by lower earnings and higher working capital requirements.
The increase in the first quarter of 2019 was mainly due to a facility expansion at TEQ ($3.8 million).
In addition, the Company incurred expenditures for capitalized software of $2.1 million in both of the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Subsequent to December 31, 2018, a quarterly dividend of $0.08 per share, totaling $2.1 million, was paid on January 18, 2019 to stockholders of record as of January 3, 2019.


