fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying consolidated financial statements, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the interim periods presented.
References to the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 represent the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Our significant accounting policies are included in Note 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2018.
On October 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No.
Significant changes to our policies resulting from the adoption are provided below.
We adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective transition method applied to contracts that were not substantially complete at the end of fiscal year 2018.
We recorded a $5.5 million adjustment to increase retained earnings to reflect the cumulative impact of adopting this standard at the beginning of fiscal year 2019, primarily related to certain long-term contracts our Filtration and Technical Packaging segments have that converted to the cost-to-cost method for revenue recognition.
Revenue is then recognized for the transaction price allocated to the performance obligation when control of the promised goods or services underlying the performance obligation is transferred.
Arrangements with customers that include payment terms extending beyond one year are not significant.
The contracts may contain multiple products, which are capable of being distinct as the customer could benefit from each product on its own or together with other readily available resources.
Most of our contract modifications are for products that are not distinct from the existing contract and are accounted for as part of that existing contract.
Certain of our long-term contracts contain incentive fees that can increase the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
For short term fixed price and cost-type contracts, we are generally paid within a short period of time.
Products accounted for under this guidance include the construction and installation of complex test chambers to a buyer’s specifications that provide its customers with the ability to measure and contain magnetic, electromagnetic and acoustic energy.
The goods and services related to each installed test chamber are not distinct due to the significant amount of integration provided and each installed chamber is accounted for as a single performance obligation.
We use milestones to measure progress for our Test segment contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
Under the typical payment terms of our fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments.


item2.txt
In the first quarter of 2019, net sales of $66.2 million were $6.2 million, or 10.3%, higher than the $60.0 million in the first quarter of 2018.
Backlog was $398.3 million at December 31, 2018 compared with $382.8 million at September 30, 2018.
Of the new orders received in the first quarter of 2019, $83.7 million related to Filtration products, $45.4 million related to Test products, $52.0 million related to USG products, and $17.0 million related to Technical Packaging products.
Amortization expenses consist of amortization of acquired intangible assets from acquisitions and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily software).
The principal component in other income, net, in the first quarter of 2019 was a gain of approximately $8 million on the sale of the Doble Watertown, MA building and land.
The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on EBIT, and provides EBIT on a consolidated basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Please refer to the discussion of non-GAAP financial measures in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, above.
These charges consisted primarily of severance and compensation benefits and asset impairment charges.
Corporate costs included in EBIT were $10.4 million and $8.9 million in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The decrease in interest expense in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018 was mainly due to lower average outstanding borrowings ($212 million compared to $265.7 million), partially offset by higher average interest rates (3.3% vs. 2.7%).


item3.txt
In 2018, the Company entered into three interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150 million to hedge some of its exposure to variability in future LIBOR-based interest payments on variable rate debt.


item4.txt



