fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying consolidated financial statements, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the interim periods presented.
References to the second quarters of 2019 and 2018 represent the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Our significant accounting policies are included in Note 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2018.
On October 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No.
Significant changes to our policies resulting from the adoption are provided below.
We recorded a $4.2 million adjustment to increase retained earnings to reflect the cumulative impact of adopting this standard at the beginning of fiscal year 2019, primarily related to certain long-term contracts our Filtration and Technical Packaging segments have that converted to the cost-to-cost method for revenue recognition.
Revenue is then recognized for the transaction price allocated to the performance obligation when control of the promised goods or services underlying the performance obligation is transferred.
Payment terms with customers vary by the type and location of the customer and the products or services offered.
Arrangements with customers that include payment terms extending beyond one year are not significant.
The contracts may contain multiple products, which are capable of being distinct as the customer could benefit from each product on its own or together with other readily available resources.
Therefore, each product is distinct in context of the contract and will be accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
Most of our contract modifications are for products that are not distinct from the existing contract and are accounted for as part of that existing contract.
Certain of our long-term contracts contain incentive fees that can increase the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
For short term fixed price and cost-type contracts, we are generally paid within a short period of time.
Products accounted for under this guidance include the construction and installation of complex test chambers to a buyer’s specifications that provide its customers with the ability to measure and contain magnetic, electromagnetic and acoustic energy.
The goods and services related to each installed test chamber are not distinct due to the significant amount of integration provided and each installed chamber is accounted for as a single performance obligation.
We use milestones to measure progress for our Test segment contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.


item2.txt
References to the second quarters of 2019 and 2018 represent the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In the second quarter of 2019, net sales of $193.9 million were $19.1 million, or 10.9%, higher than the $174.8 million in the second quarter of 2018.
The increase in the first six months of 2019 compared to the first six months of 2018 was primarily due to an $8.0 million increase in net sales at Crissair due to higher aerospace shipments, a $5.0 million increase in net sales at PTI due to higher aerospace assembly and element shipments, a $3.6 million increase in net sales at Westland due to timing of shipments on government programs and a $3.3 million increase in net sales at Mayday due to higher aerospace shipments.
The increase in the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of 2018 was primarily due to higher sales from the segment’s U.S. operations due to the timing of test and measurement chamber projects.
Backlog was $436.1 million at March 31, 2019 compared with $382.8 million at September 30, 2018.
Of the new orders received in the second quarter of 2019, $100.8 million related to Filtration products, $57.6 million related to Test products, $51.0 million related to USG products, and $22.3 million related to Technical Packaging products.
Amortization expenses consist of amortization of acquired intangible assets from acquisitions and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily software).
The increase in amortization expense in the first six months of 2019 compared to the first six months of 2018 was mainly due to an increase in amortization of intangibles related to the Manta acquisition.
The principal component in other income, net, in the first six months of 2019 was a gain of approximately $8 million on the sale of the Doble Watertown, MA building and land, partially offset by certain restructuring activities at Doble, PTI, VACCO and Plastique and losses on derivative instruments.
The principal components in other expenses, net, in the first six months of 2018 were $2.1 million of charges related to the USG segment restructuring activities as mentioned above, partially offset by gains on derivative instruments.


item3.txt
In 2018, the Company entered into three interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150 million to hedge some of its exposure to variability in future LIBOR-based interest payments on variable rate debt.


item4.txt



