fls.txt



item1.txt
Logitech International S.A, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, ("Logitech" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences.
The condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 17, 2019.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable.
Significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, valuation of operating right-of-use assets, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing, and pricing programs (Customer Programs) and related breakage when appropriate, accrued sales return liability, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" (ASU 2016-02 or Topic 842), which requires a lessee to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities arising from operating and financing leases with terms longer than 12 months on the consolidated balance sheets and to disclose key information about leasing arrangements.
The Company adopted the new standard effective April 1, 2019 and recorded an ROU asset and lease liability related to its operating leases.
Accordingly, the Company applied the new lease standard prospectively to leases existing or commencing on or after April 1, 2019.
Prior period balances and disclosures have not been restated.
The Company elected the package of transitional practical expedients, which among other provisions, allows the Company to not reassess under the new standard the Company's prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct cost, for any existing leases on the adoption date.
The adoption of the standard did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated statement of operations, comprehensive income, changes in shareholders' equity or cash flows.
Share equivalents attributable to outstanding stock options, restricted stock units ("RSUs") and employee share purchase rights (ESPP) totaling 2.0 million and 1.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted net income per share because the combined exercise price and average unamortized grant date fair value upon exercise of these options and ESPP or vesting of RSUs were greater than the average market price of the Company's shares during the periods presented herein, and therefore their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.
Performance-based awards were not included because all necessary conditions have not been satisfied by the end of the respective period, and those shares were not issuable if the end of the reporting period was the end of the contingency period.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company offers the 2006 Employee Share Purchase Plan, as amended and restated (Non-U.S.) (2006 ESPP), the 1996 Employee Share Purchase Plan (U.S.), as amended and restated (1996 ESPP), the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (2006 Plan), and the 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan (2012 Plan).


item2.txt
You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Logitech is a world leader in designing, manufacturing and marketing products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences.
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period.
•We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers.
This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results.
•We engage in acquisitions and divestitures, and such activity varies from period to period.
•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S.
As a result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive.
The development of new products and services can be very difficult and requires high levels of innovation.
The development process also can be lengthy and costly.
Consumer demand for PCs, especially in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia, has been declining or flat for several years, and such trends may continue in the future.


