fls.txt



item1.txt
Logitech International S.A, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, ("Logitech" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences.
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
The Company sells its products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers, e-tailers and indirect sales through distributors.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below under Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, there have been no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable.
ASU 2014-09 outlines a new, single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
The new standard requires reporting companies to disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
As a result, upon adoption of Topic 606, estimated breakage for accruals of certain Customer Programs is recognized sooner as compared to Topic 605.
Subsequent to the adoption of Topic 606, such balances are presented as accrued customer marketing, pricing and incentive programs included in accrued and other current liabilities.
Certain balances of allowances for sales return and accruals for Customer Programs which were accrued based on Customer Program offers made to individual customer, met the right of offset criteria in accordance with ASC 210-20, "Balance Sheet (Topic 210)", and are still included within accounts receivable, net.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have an impact over the total cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
ASU 2016-01 requires entities to measure equity instruments at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value within the statement of operations.


item2.txt
You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.


item3.txt
Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers.
•We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers.
•We engage in acquisitions and divestitures, and such activity varies from period to period.
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories.
•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive.
The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation.


