fls.txt



item1.txt
Logitech International S.A, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, ("Logitech" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences.
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
In August 2018, the Company acquired Blue Microphones Holding Corporation.
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below under Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, there have been no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable.
2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)" ("ASU 2014-09" or “Topic 606”) which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 605 (“Topic 605”), Revenue Recognition.
The new standard requires reporting companies to disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
Certain balances of allowances for sales return and accruals for Customer Programs which were accrued based on offers made to individual customers, met the right of offset criteria in accordance with ASC 210-20, "Balance Sheet (Topic 210)", and are still included within accounts receivable, net.
ASU 2016-01 requires entities to measure equity instruments at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value within the statement of operations.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 effective April 1, 2018 on a prospective basis for its privately held strategic equity securities without readily determinable fair values.
The Company elected the measurement alternative to record these investments at cost and to adjust for impairments and observable price changes with a same or similar security from the same issuer within the statement of operations.
The adoption of ASU 2016-01 did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company plans on electing the package of transitional practical expedients upon adoption which, among other provisions, allows the Company to carry forward historical lease classification, for any expired or existing leases on the adoption date.
Revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or service in an amount that reflects the transaction price the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.


item2.txt
You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
From time to time, we may seek to partner with, or acquire when appropriate, companies that have products, personnel, and technologies that complement our strategic direction.
On August 21, 2018 (the "Acquisition Date"), we acquired all equity interests in Blue Microphones Holding Corporation ("Blue Microphones") for a total consideration of $134.8 million in cash (the "Blue Microphones Acquisition"), which includes a working capital adjustment and repayment of a debt on behalf of Blue Microphones.


item3.txt
Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
•We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers.
•We engage in acquisitions and divestitures, and such activity varies from period to period.
•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive.
In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected.
The development of new products and services can be very difficult and requires high levels of innovation.
The development process also can be lengthy and costly.


