fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the documents incorporated herein by reference, contains forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty.


item1.txt
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2018, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations for interim reporting of the SEC.
Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019, as we recognized $121.6 million of lease liabilities and $113.4 million of right-of-use ("ROU") assets for those leases classified as operating leases.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense for lease payments related to our operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We do not recognize short-term leases (those that, at the commencement date, have a lease term of 12 months or less) on our consolidated balance sheets.
Variable lease payments, which are primarily comprised of common-area maintenance, utilities and real estate taxes that are passed on from the lessor in proportion to the space leased by us, are recognized in operating expenses in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.
On January 2, 2019, we acquired all of the outstanding equity securities, including all voting equity interests, of YourCause Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("YourCause"), pursuant to a purchase agreement and plan of merger.


item2.txt
The early adopter program for our Cloud Solution for Faith Communities is on track and we expect to soon announce the general availability of Blackbaud Church Management™.
We’ve spent a considerable amount of time working with churches to fully understand their processes and workflows to gain additional insight into the capabilities they need to be successful, and we continue to incorporate that feedback to optimize our platform specifically for their needs.
Churches can also add other Blackbaud capabilities from the Cloud Solution for Faith Communities as their needs scale—all through one integrated experience, which is powered by the Blackbaud SKY platform.
We're excited about the opportunity to disrupt the market landscape by providing this peer-to-peer solution, which is fully integrated across our portfolio of best-in-class cloud solutions.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments In January 2019, we completed our acquisition of YourCause, an industry leader in enterprise corporate social responsibility and employee engagement technology, and we continue to be excited about this business.
We have spent the last several years creating one global sales operating model, which allows us to recruit, hire, train and track the progress of a growing sales team in a way we could not have done in the past.
The increases in total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $3.8 million and $9.4 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
Increases in stock-based compensation of $1.2 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $0.6 million, also negatively impacted income from operations during the three months ended June 30, 2019.
Increases in stock-based compensation of $3.8 million, employee severance of $2.6 million, rent expense of $1.6 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.7 million, also negatively impacted income from operations during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018.
The increase in rent expense was primarily associated with the lease for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



