fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations for interim reporting of the SEC.
In order to provide comparability between periods presented, those amounts of revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Under the new standard, we defer all incremental commission and related fringe benefit costs to obtain a contract and amortize these costs in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Therefore, recurring revenue is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that the solution or service is made available to the customer.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.


item2.txt
There is a concerted effort underway to optimize our portfolio of solutions and integrate powerful capabilities — such as built in data, analytics, artificial intelligence, payment processing and tailored user-specific experiences — to bring even greater value and performance to our customers.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity.
We recently released new fundraising benchmarking capabilities in Raisers Edge NXT™ that complement the existing set of SKY Reporting™ tools and leverage Blackbaud's proprietary data, giving our customers the ability to compare their performance in key fundraising metrics against their peers.
During the second quarter of 2018, we acquired Reeher, expanding our fundraising performance management capabilities with the intent to drive more effective fundraising and greater social good outcomes for our customers.
With the introduction of our cloud solution for faith communities, including the new church management applications, we are now in a position to organically build as an option and not just acquire incremental TAM.
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices outside of Charleston, South Carolina to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments.
Restructuring costs incurred to date and expected to be incurred consist primarily of costs to terminate existing lease agreements as well as contractual lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, upon vacating space as part of the plan.
The increases in total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see strong demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
One-time services and other revenue declined during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
In addition, we have also used promotions and discounts for our consulting services as incentives to accelerate the migration of our existing customer base from on-premises solutions toward our cloud-based subscriptions.
The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions was offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization, which we expect will increase in the second half of 2018, and customer success program and, to a lesser extent, increases in restructuring costs of $3.7 million, stock-based compensation expense of $3.0 million, net acquisition-related expenses and integration costs of $1.6 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million.
We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides an accurate representation of our customers' overall behavior.
In the near term, our recurring revenue customer retention rate may modestly decrease driven by our efforts to rationalize our portfolio of solutions and migrate customers from legacy solutions towards our next generation cloud-based solutions.
At June 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents were $29.2 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $478.7 million.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



