fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations for interim reporting of the SEC.
In order to provide comparability between periods presented, those amounts of revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Under the new standard, we defer all incremental commission and related fringe benefit costs to obtain a contract and amortize these costs in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Therefore, recurring revenue is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that the solution or service is made available to the customer.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.


item2.txt
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
There is a concerted effort underway to optimize our portfolio of solutions and integrate powerful capabilities — such as built in data, analytics, artificial intelligence, payment processing and tailored user-specific experiences — to bring even greater value and performance to our customers.
This next generation cloud offering brings our proven strengths in fundraising and CRM, financial management, marketing, payments and analytics together with completely new church management capabilities, giving church leaders the ability to track gifts and tithing, assimilate new members, directly communicate with their congregations via multi-channel communication, enable members to make online and mobile contributions, manage small groups of volunteers, implement secure child check-in, conduct background checks, provide bulk tax statements and manage facilities.
Second, at our 2018 annual user conference, bbcon, we announced our new Cloud Solution for Higher Education with the introduction of a new Education Management portfolio along with stewardship management and guided fundraising capabilities tailored for higher education.
Third, we announced with Microsoft that we are investing in an Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits™, which will accelerate cloud innovation in areas that address critical market needs across the mission lifecycle of nonprofits.
As part of this initiative, we announced our first jointly-developed solution suite called Nonprofit Resource Management™, which is a breakthrough in helping nonprofits effectively source, track, distribute, and measure the impact of their resources across core business processes from managing the distribution of material goods to financial and human capital distribution.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity.
Our sales account executives now lead with a total-solution selling strategy by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term.
We continue to innovate and acquire solutions that create value for our customers, such as our new Cloud Solutions for Faith Communities and Higher Education and the Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits with Microsoft, as discussed above.
During the second quarter of 2018, we acquired Reeher, expanding our fundraising performance management capabilities with the intent to drive more effective fundraising and greater social good outcomes for our customers.
With the introduction of our new Cloud Solutions for Faith Communities and Higher Education and the Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits, we are now in a position to organically build and not just acquire incremental TAM.
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives, including improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices outside of Charleston, South Carolina to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments, and we have already successfully transitioned seven of our offices.
The increases in total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
One-time services and other revenue declined during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
In addition, we have also used promotions and discounts for our consulting services as incentives to accelerate the migration of our existing customer base from on-premises solutions toward our cloud-based subscriptions.
The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions was offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization and innovation, which we expect to continue in the fourth quarter of 2018 and beyond, and to a lesser extent, increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.2 million and $3.3 million, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



