See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Seagate Technology plc (“STX”) and its subsidiaries (collectively, unless the context otherwise indicates, the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. Its principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”), solid state hybrid drives (“SSHDs”) and storage subsystems.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, reliability, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state drives use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory. In addition to HDDs and SSDs, SSHDs combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a high capacity hard disk drive and a smaller SSD acting as a cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data.
The Company’s HDD products are designed for nearline and mission critical applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; edge non-compute applications, where its products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, video and image applications, including surveillance systems, network-attached storage (“NAS”), digital video recorders (“DVRs”) and gaming consoles; and edge compute applications, where its products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing. The Company’s SSD product portfolio is mainly comprised of Serial Attached SCSI (“SAS”) and Non-Volatile Memory Express (“NVMe”) and is designed for applications in enterprise servers and storage systems.
The Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. The three months ended October 4, 2019 consisted of 14 weeks and the three months ended September 28, 2018 consisted of 13 weeks. Fiscal year 2020, which ends on July 3, 2020, is comprised of 53 weeks and fiscal year 2019, which ended on June 28, 2019, is comprised of 52 weeks. The fiscal quarters ended October 4, 2019, June 28, 2019 and September 28, 2018, are also referred to herein as the “September 2019 quarter”, the “June 2019 quarter”, and the “September 2018 quarter”, respectively. The results of operations for the three months ended October 4, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the Company’s fiscal year ending July 3, 2020. 
In accordance with its policy, the Company reviews the estimated useful lives of its fixed assets on an ongoing basis. This review indicated that the actual lives of certain manufacturing equipment at its manufacturing facilities were longer than the estimated useful lives used for deprecation purposes in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements. As a result, effective June 29, 2019, the Company changed its estimate of the useful lives of its manufacturing equipment from a range of three to five years to a range of three to seven years. The effect of this change in estimate increased the September 2019 quarter net income by $23 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.09. 
Effective June 29, 2019, the Company adopted a new accounting policy for leases in accordance with Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 842, Leases, using the modified retrospective approach. Accordingly, the Company applied the new lease accounting standard prospectively to leases existing or commencing on or after June 29, 2019. The Company elected to apply the practical expedients which allow for not reassessing whether existing contracts contain leases, the classification of existing leases and whether the existing initial direct costs meet the new definition. In addition, the Company elected to combine lease and non-lease components for facility leases and to not recognize right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for leases with an initial term of 12 months of less on the balance sheet. 
The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease or contains a lease at inception. ROU assets are included in Other assets, net and lease liabilities are included in Accrued expenses and Other non-current liabilities on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and the corresponding lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Lease liabilities are measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments and ROU assets are based on the lease liability, adjusted for lease prepayments, lease incentives received and the lessee’s initial direct costs. As the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate, the net present value of future minimum lease payments is determined using the Company’s estimated incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date. Additionally, the Company’s lease term may include options to extend or terminate the lease. These options are reflected in the ROU asset and lease liability when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option. The Company’s lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases and subsequently issued certain interpretive clarifications on this new guidance which amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring a lessee to recognize an ROU asset and corresponding lease liability for operating leases and enhanced disclosures. As of June 29, 2019, adoption of the standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and corresponding current and non-current lease liabilities of $115 million, $17 million and $57 million, respectively, on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily relating to real estate operating leases. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s other condensed consolidated financial statements. For information regarding the impact of ASC 842 adoption, see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Leases above and Note 5. Leases. 
Contract. This ASU aligns the accounting for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the accounting for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
As of October 4, 2019, the Company’s Other current assets included $2 million in restricted cash and investments held as collateral at banks for various performance obligations. 
As of October 4, 2019, the Company had no material available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of October 4, 2019.
As of June 28, 2019, the Company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 28, 2019.
$750 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.25% Senior Notes due March 2022 (the “2022 Notes”). The interest on the 2022 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2022 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2022 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX. On September 18, 2019, the principal amount of approximately $250 million was repurchased pursuant to cash tender offers for certain senior notes (the “Tender Offers”). The Company recorded a loss of $10 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 $1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due June 2023 (the “2023 Notes”). The interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2023 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2023 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX. On September 18, 2019, the principal amount of $200 million was repurchased pursuant to the Tender Offers. The Company recorded a loss of $10 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due March 2024 (the “2024 Notes”).The interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2024 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2024 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.
$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due January 2025 (the “2025 Notes”). The interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2025 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2025 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX. On September 18, 2019, the principal amount of approximately $170 million was repurchased pursuant to the Tender Offers. The Company recorded a loss of $8 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 5.75% Senior Notes due December 2034 (the “2034 Notes”). The interest on the 2034 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2034 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2034 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX. 
The Company’s income tax benefit of $2 million for the three months ended October 4, 2019 included approximately $11 million of net discrete tax benefit of which $8 million was associated with net excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation expense. 
The Company’s income tax provision of $18 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018 included approximately $1 million of net discrete tax expense.
The Company is a lessee in several operating leases related to real estate facilities for warehouse and office space. 
The Company’s lease arrangements comprise operating leases with various expiration dates through 2082. The lease term includes the non-cancelable period of the lease, adjusted for options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that an option will be exercised. 
6.Restructuring and Exit Costs
 The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and to a lesser extent, equity market risks relating to its ongoing business operations. From time to time, the Company enters into cash flow hedges in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. The objective of foreign currency forward exchange contracts is to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risk on forecasted expenses and investments denominated in foreign currencies. 
In the September 2019 quarter, the Company entered into certain interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $500 million to convert the variable interest rate on its Term Loan to fixed interest rates. The contracts were effective as of October 4, 2019 and will mature on September 16, 2025. The objective of the interest rate swap agreements is to eliminate the variability of interest payment cash flows associated with variable interest rates. The Company designated the interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges. 
The Company’s accounting policies for these instruments are based on whether the instruments are classified as designated or non-designated hedging instruments. The Company records all derivatives on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. The changes in the fair value of highly effective designated cash flow hedges are recorded in Accumulated 
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist of foreign currency forward exchange contracts that the Company uses to hedge the foreign currency exposure on forecasted expenditures denominated in currency other than the U.S. dollar. The Company recognizes gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs in Other, net on its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Deferred gains and deferred losses on derivatives are recognized in Other current assets and Accrued expenses, respectively, on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The following tables show the total notional value of the Company’s outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps as of October 4, 2019 and June 28, 2019. All of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts mature within 12 months.
The Company is subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by its employees as part of its Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan—the Seagate Deferred Compensation Plan (the “SDCP”). In fiscal year 2014, the Company entered into a Total Return Swap (“TRS”) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the SDCP liabilities. The Company pays a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS. The TRS is designed to substantially offset changes in the SDCP liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. As of October 4, 2019, the notional investments underlying the TRS amounted to $117 million. The contract term of the TRS is through January 2020 and is settled on a monthly basis, therefore limiting counterparty performance risk. The Company does not designate the TRS as a hedge. Rather, the Company records all changes in the fair value of the TRS to earnings to offset the market value changes of the SDCP liabilities.
The amount of loss recognized in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges was $1 million for the three months ended October 4, 2019. The amount of loss recognized in income related to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationships and to the amount excluded from the assessment of hedge ineffectiveness was not material for the three months ended October 4, 2019.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
Level 3 — Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.
As of October 4, 2019 and June 28, 2019, the carrying value of the Company’s strategic investments was $115 million and $114 million, respectively. For the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, there were no upward or downward adjustments on equity investments. 
As of June 28, 2019, the Company had $23 million of held for sale land and building (collectively, the “properties”) included in Other current assets on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. In July 2019, the Company completed the sale of the properties. As of October 4, 2019, the Company had no held for sale land and building.
The Company’s authorized share capital is $13,500 and consists of 1,250,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.00001, of which 262,624,650 shares were outstanding as of October 4, 2019, and 100,000,000 preferred shares, par value $0.00001, of which none were issued or outstanding as of October 4, 2019.
Ordinary shares—Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the board of directors (the “Board of Directors”). Upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, after required payments are made to holders of preferred shares, any remaining assets will be distributed ratably to holders of the preferred and ordinary shares. Holders of shares are entitled to one vote per share on all matters upon which the ordinary shares are entitled to vote, including the election of directors. 
Preferred shares—The Company may issue preferred shares in one or more series, up to the authorized amount, without shareholder approval. The Board of Directors is authorized to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each series, and to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of the shares of each wholly unissued series and any of its qualifications, limitations or restrictions. The Board of Directors can also increase or decrease the number of shares of a series, but not below the number of shares of that series then outstanding, without any further vote or action by the shareholders.
The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred shares with voting or conversion rights that could harm the voting power or other rights of the holders of the ordinary shares. The issuance of preferred shares, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could, among other things, have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company and might harm the market price of its ordinary shares and the voting and other rights of the holders of ordinary shares.
 All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.
Seagate Technology, an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the Cayman Islands (“Seagate-Cayman”) and wholly-owned subsidiary of STX, from time to time enters into indemnification agreements with the directors, officers, employees and agents of STX or any of its subsidiaries (each, an “Indemnitee”). The indemnification agreements provide indemnification in addition to any of Indemnitee’s indemnification rights under any relevant Articles of Association (or similar constitutional document), applicable law or otherwise, and indemnifies an Indemnitee for certain expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and settlement amounts actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in any action or proceeding, including any action by or in the right of STX or any of its subsidiaries, arising out of his or her service as a director, officer, employee or agent of STX or any of its subsidiaries or of any other entity to which he or she provides services at the Company’s request. However, Indemnitees are not indemnified under the indemnification agreements for (i) any fraud or dishonesty in the performance of Indemnitee’s duty to STX or the applicable subsidiary or (ii) Indemnitee’s conscious, intentional or willful failure to act honestly, lawfully and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company. In addition, the indemnification agreements provide that Seagate-Cayman will advance expenses incurred by an Indemnitee in connection with enforcement of the indemnification agreement or with the investigation, settlement or appeal of any action or proceeding against him or her as to which he or she could be indemnified.
The anti-dilutive shares related to employee equity award plans that were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share were not material for the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018.
Lambeth Magnetic Structures LLC v. Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc., et al. On April 29, 2016, Lambeth Magnetic Structures LLC filed a complaint against Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc. and Seagate Technology LLC in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania, alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 7,128,988, “Magnetic Material Structures, Devices and Methods.” The Company believes the claims asserted in the complaint are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this case. The court issued its claim construction ruling on October 18, 2017. A jury trial in this matter is scheduled for June 1, 2020. While the possible range of loss for this matter remains uncertain, the Company estimates the amount of loss to be immaterial to the financial statements.
The Company’s operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of the Company’s operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities.
The Company has established environmental management systems and continually updates its environmental policies and standard operating procedures for its operations worldwide. The Company believes that its operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. The Company budgets for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. If additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on the Company in the future, it could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures.
Some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the “Superfund” law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. The Company has been identified as a responsible or potentially responsible party at several sites. At each of these sites, the Company has an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. The Company has fulfilled its responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time.
On October 28, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.65 per share, which will be payable on January 8, 2020 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 26, 2019.
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 13. Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
