 ITEM 2.  
The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended September 28, 2018, June 29, 2018 and September 29, 2017, referred to herein as the “September 2018 quarter,” the “June 2018 quarter,” and the “September 2017 quarter,” respectively. We operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. The September 2018, June 2018 and September 2017 quarters were all 13 weeks.  
You should read this discussion in conjunction with financial information and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries. References to “$” are to United States dollars.  
the development and introduction of products based on new technologies and expansion into new data storage markets;  
the Company’s ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with its restructuring plans and consolidation of its manufacturing activities;  
the Company’s ability to effectively manage its debt obligations and comply with certain covenants in its credit facilities with respect to financial ratios and financial condition tests and maintain a favorable cash liquidity position;  
disruptions to the Company’s supply chain or production capabilities;  
consolidation trends in the data storage industry;  
fluctuations in interest rates;  
fluctuations in the value of the Company’s investments and the associated investment income;  
the evolving legal, regulatory and administrative climate in the international markets where the Company operates including changes in regulations relating to privacy and protection of data and environmental matters; and  
cyber-attacks or other data breaches that disrupt the Company’s operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information and cause reputational harm, and the cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities associated with the Company’s infrastructure updates to its information technology systems.  
Table of Contents 
Our Company. Overview of our business.  
Overview of the September 2018 quarter. Highlights of events in the September 2018 quarter that impacted our financial position.  
Our Company  
We are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and storage subsystems.  
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory.  
Our HDD products are designed for mission critical and nearline applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; edge compute applications, where our products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and edge non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, surveillance systems, digital video recorders (“DVRs”), network-attached storage (“NAS”) and gaming consoles. Our SSD products mainly include serial attached SCSI (“SAS”) and Non-Volatile Memory Express (“NVMe”) SSDs.  
Our enterprise data solutions (formerly referred to as the “cloud systems and solutions”) portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.  
Overview of the September 2018 Quarter  
During the September 2018 quarter, we shipped 99 exabytes of HDD storage capacity. We generated revenue of approximately $3.0 billion, gross margin of 31% and our operating cash flow was $587 million. We paid $181 million in dividends and repurchased 3 million of our ordinary shares for $150 million.  
Table of Contents 
Table of Contents 
Revenue  
Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin  
In the September 2018 quarter, total warranty cost was 0.7% of revenue and included a favorable change in estimates of prior warranty accruals of 0.5% of revenue due to improvements in return rates on newer generation products. Warranty cost related to new shipments was 1.2%, 1.3% and 1.3% of revenue for the September 2018, June 2018 and September 2017 quarters, respectively.  
Table of Contents 
Product development expense. Product development expense for the September 2018 quarter remained relatively flat compared to the June 2018 quarter and the September 2017 quarter.  
Amortization of intangibles. Amortization of intangibles for the September 2018 quarter remained flat compared to the June 2018 quarter. Amortization of intangibles for the September 2018 quarter decreased by $16 million from the September 2017 quarter due to certain intangible assets reaching the end of their useful life.  
Restructuring and other, net. Restructuring and other, net for the September 2018 quarter was comprised of charges primarily related to a voluntary early exit program.  
Restructuring and other, net for the June 2018 quarter included a gain of $24 million from the sale of certain properties previously classified as held for sale, offset by restructuring charges announced in prior periods.  
Restructuring and other, net for the September 2017 quarter was comprised of restructuring charges to reduce our global workforce by 600 employees.  
Other Expense, Net  
Other expense, net decreased by $4 million from the June 2018 quarter primarily due to an $11 million increase in interest income on investment in a debt security, offset by a $5 million net increase in losses due to unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  
Compared to the September 2017 quarter, Other expense, net decreased by $32 million primarily due to a $16 million net increase in gains due to favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates and a $16 million increase in interest income on investment in a debt security.  
Table of Contents 
Liquidity and Capital Resources  
Cash and Cash Equivalents  
Our cash and cash equivalents increased from June 29, 2018 as a result of an increase in the net cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by net cash outflows for dividends paid to our shareholders of $181 million, capital expenditures of $177 million and repurchases of our ordinary shares of $150 million.  
Cash Provided by Operating Activities  
an increase of $119 million in accounts payable, primarily due to higher material purchases;  
Table of Contents 
partially offset by a decrease of $79 million in accrued employee compensation primarily due to cash paid to our employees as part of our variable compensation plans; and  
an increase of $66 million in inventory, primarily due to an increase in units built.  
Cash Used in Investing Activities  
Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended September 28, 2018 was $176 million, which was primarily attributable to the payments for the purchase of property, equipment and leasehold improvements of $177 million.  
Cash Used in Financing Activities  
$181 million in dividend payments;  
$150 million paid to repurchase ordinary shares; and  
$27 million paid for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards;  
partially offset by $32 million in proceeds from the issuance of ordinary shares under employee stock plans.  
Liquidity Sources, Cash Requirements and Commitments  
As of September 28, 2018, no borrowings had been drawn under the revolving credit facility or had been utilized for letters of credit issued under this credit facility. The line of credit is available for borrowings, subject to compliance with financial covenants and other customary conditions to borrowing.  
For fiscal year 2019, we expect capital expenditures to remain below our long-term targeted range of 6% to 8% of revenue.  
From time to time we may repurchase any of our outstanding notes in open market or privately negotiated purchases or otherwise, or we may repurchase outstanding notes pursuant to the terms of the applicable indenture.  
Dividends declared in the September 2018 quarter of $180 million were subsequently paid on October 3, 2018. The Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.63 per share on November 2, 2018, which is payable on January 2, 2019 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 19, 2018.  
From time to time we may repurchase any of our outstanding ordinary shares through private, open market, tender offers broker-assisted purchases or other means. As of September 28, 2018, $0.7 billion remained available for repurchase under our existing repurchase authorization limit. All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. On October 29, 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $2.3 billion of our outstanding ordinary shares.  
Table of Contents 
Critical Accounting Policies  
Recent Accounting Pronouncements  
Table of Contents 
 ITEM 2.  
Repurchase of Equity Securities  
All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.  
As of September 28, 2018, $0.7 billion remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit. There is no expiration date on this authorization. On October 29, 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $2.3 billion of our outstanding ordinary shares.  
Repurchase of shares including tax withholdings.  
