fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
In management’s opinion, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of interim results.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018.
Since our performance obligations to deliver products are part of contracts that generally have original durations of one year or less, we have elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of transaction prices associated with unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations as of June 28, 2019.
We do not account for these warranties as separate performance obligations.
We estimate these amounts in the same period revenue is recognized based on the expected value to be provided to customers and reduce revenue accordingly.
This guidance, as subsequently amended, requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for most leases and is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We elected to early adopt this update, which did not have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, in the quarter ended December 28, 2018.
The update was adopted on a modified retrospective basis in the quarter ended December 28, 2018 and resulted in a $443 million cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning accumulated earnings, which represented the net reversal of all balances associated with deferred tax impacts of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
This included a decrease in other assets of $798 million, an increase in deferred tax assets of $418 million, and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $63 million on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
We adopted ASC 606, as amended, in the quarter ended December 28, 2018 using a modified retrospective approach.
Prior period amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
Because the impact of adoption was immaterial, we have not recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning accumulated earnings.
During fiscal 2019, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements impacting all segments.


item2.txt
TE Connectivity Ltd. (“TE Connectivity” or the “Company,” which may be referred to as “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a global technology and manufacturing leader creating a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future.
For more than 75 years, our connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, have enabled advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home.
On an organic basis, our net sales decreased 2.8% and 0.5% during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018.
●Transportation Solutions—Our net sales decreased 6.8% and 5.6% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the automotive end market.
●Net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $1,575 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
●Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales declines in the industrial equipment and energy end markets to be partially offset by growth in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market.
In the industrial equipment end market, sales declines resulting from high inventory levels at distributors are expected to be partially offset by growth in medical applications.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.81 to $0.87 per share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019.
We expect global automotive production to decline approximately 7% in fiscal 2019.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $5.42 to $5.48 per share in fiscal 2019.
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $400 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
Swiss Parliament approved the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (“Swiss Tax Reform”) in September 2018, and it was approved by public vote in May 2019.
In June 2019, we announced our intent to acquire all outstanding shares of First Sensor AG through a voluntary public tender offer.
See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.
Price erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $20 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
There have been no material developments in our legal proceedings since we filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, except as set forth in “Part II.


