The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs.
Forward-looking statements include, among others, the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, acquisitions, divestitures, the effects of competition, and the effects of future legislation or regulations.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.There have been no material developments in our legal proceedings since we filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017.
Legal Proceedings" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017 for additional information regarding legal proceedings.
Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017 except as described below.
Changes in United States federal tax laws could result in adverse consequences to United States persons treated as owning 10% or more of our shares.
A U.S. person that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as owning, directly, indirectly, or constructively, 10% or more of our shares may be required to annually report and include in its U.S. taxable income its pro rata share of certain types of income earned by our subsidiaries that are treated as CFCs, whether or not we make any distributions to such U.S. shareholder.
The risk of U.S. federal income tax reporting and compliance obligations with respect to our subsidiaries that now are treated as CFCs may deter our current shareholders from increasing their investment in us, and others from investing in us, which could impact the demand for, and value of, our shares.