In management’s opinion, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of interim results.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018.
Since our performance obligations to deliver products are part of contracts that generally have original durations of one year or less, we have elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of transaction prices associated with unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations as of March 29, 2019.
We do not account for these warranties as separate performance obligations.
This guidance, as subsequently amended, requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for most leases and is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We elected to early adopt this update, which did not have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, in the quarter ended December 28, 2018.
The update was adopted on a modified retrospective basis in the quarter ended December 28, 2018 and resulted in a $443 million cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning accumulated earnings, which represented the net reversal of all balances associated with deferred tax impacts of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
This included a decrease in other assets of $798 million, an increase in deferred tax assets of $418 million, and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $63 million on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.The following discussion includes organic net sales growth which is a non‑GAAP financial measure.
TE Connectivity Ltd. (“TE Connectivity” or the “Company,” which may be referred to as “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a global technology and manufacturing leader creating a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future.
For more than 75 years, our connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, have enabled advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home.
·    Transportation Solutions—Our net sales decreased 7.6% and 5.0% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the automotive end market.
·    Communications Solutions—Our net sales decreased 4.8% and 1.3% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the appliances end market.
·    Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales growth in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be offset by declines in the energy and industrial equipment end markets.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.13 to $1.17 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
We expect global automotive production to decline approximately 5% in fiscal 2019.
·    Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales increase in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be partially offset by declines in the energy end market.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $4.88 to $4.98 per share in fiscal 2019.