These leases support global staff via the use of office space, warehouses, vehicles for technicians and information technology (IT) equipment.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
The effects of initially applying ASC 842 resulted in no cumulative adjustment to retained earnings in the period of adoption.
The decision to decline the hindsight practical expedient resulted in relying on assessments made under ASC 840 during transition and re-assessing under ASC 842 going forward.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
The weighted-average discount rates used for operating and finance leases varies due to the jurisdictional composition, whereas the Company has an immaterial amount of finance leases that are primarily comprised of leases in Turkey which have higher interest rates.
Certain lease agreements include payments based on a variety of global indexes or rates.
These payment amounts have been projected using the index or rate as of lease commencement or the transition date and measured in ROU assets and lease liabilities.
Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and therefore are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate.
For real estate leases, these payments are most often tied to non-committed maintenance or utilities charges, and for equipment leases, to actual output or hours in operation.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company did not have any leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations.•Renewed two multi-year services contracts, valued at more than $90, with a top-three financial institution in the U.S. and a top-tier bank in Western Europe The Company automates, digitizes and transforms the way people bank and shop.
The Company’s integrated solutions connect digital and physical channels conveniently, securely and efficiently for millions of consumers every day.
The gross annualized savings target for DN Now is approximately $400 through 2021, of which $160 is anticipated to be realized during 2019.
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments - Banking and Retail.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
Banking operations are managed within two geographic regions.This Item 4 includes information concerning the controls and control evaluations referred to in those certifications.