fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company included finance lease receivables of $12.8 and $14.4 in other assets as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables and other current assets.
Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
For additional information on product warranty refer to note 9.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
For more detailed information about reportable operating segments, see note 20.
The Company provides its banking customers product-related services which include proactive monitoring and rapid resolution of incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others.
The Company's hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks, and other self-service devices.
The Company provides its banking customers front-end applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
For retail customers, the Company provides a comprehensive, modular solution capable of enabling the most advanced omnichannel retail use cases.
The Company's platform software is installed within bank and retail data centers to facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics.
The Company’s software solution includes its professional services team, who provides systems integration, customization, consulting and project management.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to meet branch and store automation objectives.
Software licenses and professional services may be sold separately or in bundled packages.


item2.txt
•Continued to see positive Windows 10 ATM upgrade activity, including an order with a large U.S. regional bank.
The Company provides Connected Commerce solutions which enable millions of transactions each day.
The Company refers to these activities collectively as DN Now which is designed to improve its profitability and net leverage.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer satisfaction, provide career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhance value for shareholders.
The Company’s new operating structure is primarily focused on its two main industry segments - Banking and Retail.
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes - tailored to help drive operational efficiencies, grow revenue and manage risk.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.


item3.txt
On August 15, 2016, the Company designated its €350.0 euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility as a net investment hedge of its investments in certain subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency in order to reduce volatility in stockholders' equity caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the euro with respect to the U.S. dollar.


item4.txt



part2.txt



