fls.txt



item1.txt
These leases support global staff via the use of office space, warehouses, vehicles and information technology (IT) equipment.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
The decision to decline the hindsight practical expedient resulted in relying on assessments made under ASC 840 during transition and re-assessing under ASC 842 going forward.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
Certain lease agreements include payments based on a variety of global indexes or rates.
These payment amounts have been projected using the index or rate as of lease commencement or the transition date and measured in ROU assets and lease liabilities.
Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and therefore are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate.
For real estate leases, these payments are most often tied to non-committed maintenance or utilities charges, and for equipment leases, to actual output or hours in operation.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company did not have any material leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations.
ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date and initially measured based on the present value of lease payments over the defined lease term.
As most leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Under the two-class method of computing earnings (loss) per share, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain rights to receive non-forfeitable dividends are considered participating securities.
Accordingly, the treasury stock method is disclosed below.
Share-based compensation is primarily recognized as a component of selling and administrative expense.
In the first quarter of 2019, the Company changed its accounting estimate from using a forfeiture assumption to recording actual forfeitures.
Performance shares are granted to employees and vest based on the achievement of certain performance objectives, as determined by the board of directors each year.
As of June 30, 2019, there were 0.1 non-employee director deferred shares vested and outstanding.


item2.txt
•Benefited from solid growth in self-checkout (SCO) demand from a number of European customers, including a $7.0 contract with U.K.-based retailer, Co-Op, for more than 400 self-checkout terminals and related services The Company’s integrated solutions connect digital and physical channels conveniently, securely and efficiently for millions of consumers every day.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer intimacy and satisfaction, while providing career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhancing value for shareholders.
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments - Banking and Retail.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
Banking operations are managed within two geographic regions.
Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect ServicesSM was launched in 2018 to power the business operations of financial institutions of all sizes.
From a product perspective, the banking portfolio consists of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation and kiosk technologies, as well as physical security solutions.
The Company’s software encompasses front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms which manage channel transactions, operations and channel integration.
These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via ATMs, kiosks, and other self-service devices, as well as via online and mobile digital channels.
In addition, DN Vynamic suite's open application program interface (API) architecture is built to simplify operations by eliminating the traditional focus on internal silos and enabling tomorrow's inter-connected partnerships between financial institutions and payment providers.


item3.txt



item4.txt
This Item 4 includes information concerning the controls and control evaluations referred to in those certifications.


part2.txt



