fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company included finance lease receivables of $13.3 and $14.4 in other assets as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables.
Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
For additional information on product warranty refer to note 9.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
The following is a description of principal activities, separated by reportable operating segments, from which the Company generates its revenue.
For more detailed information about reportable operating segments, see note 20.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between separate services in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
In some circumstances, when global service supply chain services are not included in a term contract and rather billed as they occur, revenue on these billed work services are recognized at a point in time as transfer of control occurs.
These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks and other self-service devices.
The Company's platform software is installed within bank and retail data centers to facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics.
These offerings include highly configurable, application program interface (API) enabled software that automates legacy banking and retail transactions across channels.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to meet branch and store automation objectives.
Software licenses and professional services may be sold separately or in bundled packages.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.


item2.txt
•Received strong banking activity in the U.S. for Windows 10 upgrades, with more than $50 million in orders •Partnered with U.S. Bank to showcase Essence, Diebold Nixdorf’s streamlined self-service touchpoint solution at ‘Super Bowl Live’ in Minneapolis The Company provides Connected Commerce solutions which enable millions of transactions each day.
In May 2018, the Company announced its plans to build upon the achievements of its integration and transformation program while improving Company profitability and cash flow through relentless focus on our customers, operational excellence and forming a unified culture.
As a result, the Company will be implementing a streamlined operating model with clearer and more consistent spans of control.
The Company anticipates the realignment of its operating model to Banking and Retail, which are directly aligned with customer interests.
To drive towards a singular Diebold Nixdorf culture, the Company will align around a few core characteristics, which reinforce the new priorities.
Collectively, these activities aim to create a more efficient organization with a leaner cost structure that will act quickly in the best interests of the Company's customers.
In order to achieve these efficiencies, the Company has and will continue to invest to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems, streamline legal entities and consolidate real estate holdings.
These offerings enable customers to meet the growing demand for transaction availability at ATMs, POS, self-checkout systems (SCO) and other distributed assets in a cost-effective manner.
The global service supply chain optimizes the process for obtaining replacement parts, making repairs, and implementing new features and functionalities.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



