fls.txt



item1.txt
During the third quarter of 2018, the Company identified an error in prior periods presented for repairable service parts inventory balances.
The Company included finance lease receivables of $14.9 and $14.4 in other assets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables and other current assets.
Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
For additional information on product warranty refer to note 9.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
For more detailed information about reportable operating segments, see note 20.
The Company provides its banking customers product-related services which include proactive monitoring and rapid resolution of incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others.
The Company's hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks, and other self-service devices.
The Company provides its banking customers front-end applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
For its retail customers, the Company provides a comprehensive, modular solution capable of enabling the most advanced omnichannel retail use cases.
The Company's platform software is installed within bank and retail data centers to facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics.
The Company’s software solution includes its professional services team, who provides systems integration, customization, consulting and project management.


item2.txt
•Transitioned to a new, streamlined and customer-centric operating model designed to drive global consistency across the organization while improving collaboration and enabling more agile decision-making.
This enhanced liquidity provides financial flexibility, facilitates acquiring the remaining shares of Diebold Nixdorf AG and supports DN Now initiatives.
•Increased its ownership stake in Diebold Nixdorf AG to 27.7 shares, or approximately 93 percent, as of September 30, 2018.
Once completed, it will result in a further simplified and streamlined corporate structure.
•Won Windows 10 ATM product upgrade contracts with several North America financial institutions, including an agreement with a regional United States (U.S.) bank for more than 500 DN Vynamic software licenses and a new managed services agreement.
Diebold Nixdorf is now the sole ATM software provider for Westpac's 2,600 machines.
The Company provides Connected Commerce solutions which enable millions of transactions each day.
The Company refers to these activities collectively as DN Now which is designed to improve its profitability and net leverage.
The savings target for DN Now is in excess of $250, of which $100 is anticipated to be realized over the next year.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer satisfaction, provide career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhance value for shareholders.


item3.txt
On August 15, 2016, the Company designated its €350.0 euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility as a net investment hedge of its investments in certain subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency in order to reduce volatility in stockholders' equity caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the euro with respect to the U.S. dollar.


item4.txt
This Item 4 includes information concerning the controls and control evaluations referred to in those certifications.


part2.txt
For more information regarding legal proceedings, please refer to Part I, Item 3 of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.


