These leases support global staff via the use of office space, warehouses, vehicles and information technology (IT) equipment.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
•The practical expedient related to land easements is not applicable as the Company currently does not utilize any easements.
•The Company declined the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term and ROU asset impairment for existing leases.
The decision to decline the hindsight practical expedient resulted in relying on assessments made under ASC 840 during transition and re-assessing under ASC 842 going forward.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
Certain lease agreements include payments based on a variety of global indexes or rates.
These payment amounts have been projected using the index or rate as of lease commencement or the transition date and measured in ROU assets and lease liabilities.
Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and, therefore, are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate.
For real estate leases, these payments are most often tied to non-committed maintenance or utilities charges, and for equipment leases, to actual output or hours in operation.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company did not have any material leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations.The Company’s integrated solutions connect digital and physical channels conveniently, securely and efficiently for millions of consumers every day.
The gross annualized savings target for DN Now is approximately $400 through 2021, of which $175 is anticipated to be realized during 2019.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer intimacy and satisfaction, while providing career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhancing value for shareholders.
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments — Banking and Retail.
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate.
The Company collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.This Item 4 includes information concerning the controls and control evaluations referred to in those certifications.