fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company reclassified an immaterial amount of $5.4 for the six months ended June 30, 2018 within the operating activities of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows between depreciation and amortization and certain other assets and liabilities to correct its presentation.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
These payment amounts have been projected using the index or rate as of lease commencement or the transition date and measured in ROU assets and lease liabilities.
Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and therefore are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate.
All contracts containing the right to use an underlying asset are reviewed to confirm that the contract meets the definition of a lease.
ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date and initially measured based on the present value of lease payments over the defined lease term.
The Company calculated basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share under both the treasury stock method and the two-class method.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no differences in the earnings (loss) per share amounts calculated under the two methods.
Total share-based compensation expense was $4.8 and $6.6 for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and was $14.1 and $20.3 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In the first quarter of 2019, the Company changed its accounting estimate from using a forfeiture assumption to recording actual forfeitures.
The change resulted in an immaterial increase in share-based compensation expense in the first quarter of 2019.
The options expected to vest are the result of applying the pre-vesting forfeiture rate assumption to total outstanding non-vested options.
Performance shares are granted to employees and vest based on the achievement of certain performance objectives, as determined by the board of directors each year.
The 2017 Plan is expected to attract and retain directors, officers and employees of the Company by providing incentives and rewards for performance.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was (20.0) percent for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and (59.5) percent for the six months ended June 30, 2019. its Barbados structure to meet the covenant requirements under its credit agreement, which resulted in additional discrete tax expense, which was offset in part by the valuation allowance release relating to the Company’s nondeductible interest expense that was carried forward from December 31, 2018.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was 18.8 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 5.1 percent for the six months ended June 30, 2018.


item2.txt
•Benefited from solid growth in self-checkout (SCO) demand from a number of European customers, including a $7.0 contract with U.K.-based retailer, Co-Op, for more than 400 self-checkout terminals and related services The Company’s integrated solutions connect digital and physical channels conveniently, securely and efficiently for millions of consumers every day.
As an innovation partner for nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers, the Company delivers unparalleled services and technology that power the daily operations and consumer experience of banks and retailers around the world.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems and processes, transition workloads to lower cost locations and consolidate real estate holdings.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers its clients the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
The Eurasia region includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.
During the second quarter, the Company introduced the DN Series of ATMs, a family of self-service solutions designed to anticipate the needs of a progressively transforming industry.
The Company's DN Vynamic software is the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace designed to simplify and enhance the consumer experience.
In addition, with a shared analytic and transaction engine, the DN Vynamic platform can generate new insights to enhance operations across any channel — putting consumer preferences, not the technology, at the heart of the experience.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes that appear elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Services gross margin increased 5.0 percent and 2.7 percent in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt



