fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
The effects of initially applying ASC 842 resulted in no cumulative adjustment to retained earnings in the period of adoption.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
The weighted-average discount rates used for operating and finance leases varies due to the jurisdictional composition, whereas the Company has an immaterial amount of finance leases that are primarily comprised of leases in Turkey which have higher interest rates.
These payment amounts have been projected using the index or rate as of lease commencement or the transition date and measured in ROU assets and lease liabilities.
Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and therefore are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate.
All contracts containing the right to use an underlying asset are reviewed to confirm that the contract meets the definition of a lease.
ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date and initially measured based on the present value of lease payments over the defined lease term.
The Company calculated basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share under both the treasury stock method and the two-class method.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no differences in the earnings (loss) per share amounts calculated under the two methods.
In the first quarter of 2019, the Company changed its accounting estimate from using a forfeiture assumption to recording actual forfeitures.
Performance shares are granted to employees and vest based on the achievement of certain performance objectives, as determined by the board of directors each year.
The 2017 Plan is expected to attract and retain directors, officers and employees of the Company by providing incentives and rewards for performance.
The effective tax rate on the net loss was (40.4) percent for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The expense on the loss is due primarily from impacts related to GILTI on the estimated annual tax rate.
The Company’s investments, primarily in Brazil, consist of certificates of deposit that are classified as available-for-sale and stated at fair value based upon quoted market prices.
There were no realized gains from the sale of securities or proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.


item2.txt
•Renewed two multi-year services contracts, valued at more than $90, with a top-three financial institution in the U.S. and a top-tier bank in Western Europe The Company automates, digitizes and transforms the way people bank and shop.
As an innovation partner for nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers, the Company delivers unparalleled services and technology that power the daily operations and consumer experience of banks and retailers around the world.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems and processes, transition workloads to lower cost locations and consolidate real estate holdings.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer intimacy and satisfaction, while providing career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhancing value for shareholders.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
The Eurasia region includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.
In 2017, the Company introduced DN Vynamic™ Software, the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace designed to simplify and enhance the consumer experience.


item3.txt



item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt
For more information regarding legal proceedings, please refer to Part I, Item 3 of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.


