fls.txt



item1.txt
As a result of applying the correction retrospectively, previously reported service cost of sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 increased by $1.0 and $3.0, respectively, and previously reported net income and basic and diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.6 and $0.01 and $1.9 and $0.02, respectively.
The Company has reclassified the presentation of certain prior-year information to conform to the current presentation.
The Company included finance lease receivables of $14.9 and $14.4 in other assets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company reclassified $8.0 from other current assets to restricted cash as of December 31, 2017 in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and was included in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash as of September 30, 2017 in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
The following is a description of principal solutions offered within the Company's two main industry segments that generate the Company's revenue.
First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The Company considered ASC 606-10-32-34(c)(2), which provides the criteria that "the entity has not yet established a price for that good or service, and the good or service has not previously been sold on a standalone basis (that is, the selling price is uncertain)."
Although the services are capable of being distinct, they are not distinct within the context of the contract.
The Company concluded this fully integrated commercial solution is inseparable since its customers generally only benefit from the combined output, which includes both the intellectual property and the professional services.
The percentage of the Company's consolidated net sales recognized from integration and customization of software represented approximately one percent for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Revenue from professional services are recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed or when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Supplementing the POS system is a broad range of peripherals, including printers, scales and mobile scanners, as well as the cash management portfolio which offers a wide range of banknote and coin processing systems.
The Company’s hybrid product line can alternate from an attended operator to self-checkout with the press of a button as traffic conditions warrant throughout the business day.
The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells the products or services.
Revenue on service contracts is recognized ratably over time, generally using an input measure, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed.
Product revenue is recognized at the point in time that the customer obtains control of the product, which could be upon delivery or upon completion of installation services, depending on contract terms.


item2.txt
The Company launched the formal process to merge the German subsidiary, Diebold Nixdorf AG, with and into Diebold KGaA.
The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customers' integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and digital worlds of transactions.
Customers of the Company include nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems, streamline legal entities and consolidate real estate holdings.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate.
Eurasia includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.
The Company also provides cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The Company’s comprehensive portfolio of retail devices, software and services enhances the shopping experiences and improves the checkout process for both retailers and consumers.


item3.txt
The Argentina operations represent less than one percent of the Company's total assets and total net sales as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.


item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt
For more information regarding legal proceedings, please refer to Part I, Item 3 of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.


