fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company has reclassified the presentation of certain prior-year information to conform to the current presentation.
The Company included finance lease receivables of $12.8 and $14.4 in other assets as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
The following is a description of principal solutions offered within the Company's two main industry segments that generate the Company's revenue.
First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
Revenue from professional services are recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed or when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Supplementing the POS system is a broad range of peripherals, including printers, scales and mobile scanners, as well as the cash management portfolio which offers a wide range of banknote and coin processing systems.
Also in the portfolio, the Company provides self-checkout terminals and ordering kiosks which facilitate an efficient and user-friendly purchasing experience.
The Company’s hybrid product line can alternate from an attended operator to self-checkout with the press of a button as traffic conditions warrant throughout the business day.
The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells the products or services.
Revenue on service contracts is recognized ratably over time, generally using an input measure, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed.
Product revenue is recognized at the point in time that the customer obtains control of the product, which could be upon delivery or upon completion of installation services, depending on contract terms.
The amount of revenue recognized in 2018 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, mainly due to the changes in the estimate of variable consideration and contract modifications was de minimis.
There have been $2.1 and $5.0 during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $10.9 and $14.8 during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, of impairment losses recognized as bad debt related to receivables or contract assets arising from the Company's contracts with customers.
As of January 1, 2018, the Company had $437.5 of unrecognized deferred revenue constituting the remaining performance obligations that are either unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied).
In 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $179.7 related to the Company's deferred revenue balance at January 1, 2018.
Contract assets of the Company primarily relate to the Company's rights to consideration for goods shipped and services provided but not contractually billable at the reporting date.


item2.txt
The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customer's integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and the digital worlds of transactions.
Customers of the Company include nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems, streamline legal entities and consolidate real estate holdings.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers in these industries the flexibility to select the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
In the retail business, the Company’s comprehensive portfolio of POS technology, software and retail automation solutions drives efficiencies by accelerating the checkout process and improving convenience for both retailers and consumers.
Excluding currency, net sales increased $5.7 from higher national account volume in North America and increased product related project activity in Latin America, specifically in Mexico and Ecuador.


item3.txt
The Argentina operations represent less than one percent of the Company's total assets and total net sales as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt



