fls.txt
The discussion of the financial condition and results of operations of the Company set forth below should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form10-Q.


item2.txt
We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services and other related matters.
Issuer Direct's principal platform, Platform id.™, empowers users by thoughtfully integrating the most relevant tools, technologies and products, thus eliminating the complexity associated with producing and distributing their business communications and financial information.
We work with a diverse customer base, which not only includes corporate issuers, but also professional firms, such as investor relations and public relations firms, and the accounting and the legal communities.
Corporate issuers and their service providers utilize Platform id.
Our ACCESSWIRE® news business offering represented a majority of the year over year growth in our Platform and Technology revenue during 2017 and continues to lead our transition to a full platform solution.
Also contributing to the growth in the percentage of Platform and Technology revenue is our focus on our platform first engagement strategy and converting customers which historically relied on us for services work to utilizing Platform id.
As part of our Platform and Technology strategy, we have been working with several select stock exchanges, whereby we make available certain parts of our platform, under agreement, to integrate our offerings.
is our primary cloud-based subscription platform that efficiently and effectively helps manage the events of our customers seeking to distribute their messaging to key constituents, investors, markets and regulatory systems around the globe.
Certain of these capabilities were historically part of our disclosure management and shareholder communications offerings, but are now included into our fully integrated platform.
While the complete platform is available for a single subscription fee, companies also have the flexibility to choose one or more of the specific modules that fit their needs.
The ACCESSWIRE product offering focuses on press release distribution for both private and publicly held companies globally.
We recently completed the integration of FSCwire and rebranded it as ACCESSWIRE Canada, and will now begin to focus on offering those customers the full suite of products included in Platform id.
Our ACCESSWIRE news editing offering is available within our core Platform id.
This has been accomplished by integrating our shareholder outreach module, formerly known as Investor Network, into and with Platform id.
Most of the customers subscribing to this module today are historical PrecisionIR (“PIR”) – Annual Report Service (“ARS”) users, as well as new customers purchasing the entire Platform id.
This API license will allow publishers to query an industry or a single companies' current and past earnings calls and present those webcasts on their platforms, under a subscription to Platform id.
Additionally, as a commitment to broadening the reach of our webcast platform, all events will be broadcast live within our shareholder outreach module, which will drive new audiences and give companies the ability to view their analytics and engagement of each event.
We believe these analytics will increase the demand for our webcasting platform among the corporate issuer community.
Our investor relations content network is another component of Platform id., which is used to create the investor relations’ tab of a public company’s website.
The clear benefit to our investor relations module is its integration into and with the rest of Platform id., meaning companies can produce content for public distribution and it is automatically linked to their corporate site, distributed to targeted groups and placed into and with our data feed partners.
Platform id.’s disclosure reporting module is a document conversion, editing and filing offering, which is designed for reporting companies and professionals seeking to insource the document drafting, editing and filing processes to the SEC’s EDGAR system and SEDAR, which is the Canadian equivalent of EDGAR.
These upgrades also include meeting new SEC mandates for foreign filers that compile financial statements using International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) to be able to utilize our cloud-based platform.
Our whistleblower module is an add-on product within Platform id.
Since the acquisition, we have been combining the stock information of both the legacy Issuer Direct customers and the acquired customers from Interwest onto our platform.
We have also begun and will continue to market the other modules of Platform id.


item4.txt
ITEM 4.
As of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report on Form10-Q, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer conducted an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
ITEM 1.


