fls.txt
The discussion of the financial condition and results of operations of the Company set forth below should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form10-Q.


item1.txt
The unaudited interim consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2019 and statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 included herein, have been prepared in accordance with the instructions for Form 10-Q under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and Article 10 of Regulation S-X under the Exchange Act. In the opinion of management, they include all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Substantially all of the Company’s revenue comes from contracts with customers for subscriptions to its cloud-based products or contracts to perform compliance or other services.
Customers consist primarily of corporate issuers and professional firms, such as investor relations and public relations firms.
In the case of our news distribution and webcasting offerings, our customers also include private companies.
The Company's revenues are measured based on consideration specified in the contract with each customer.
The Company recognizes revenue for subscriptions evenly over the contract period, upon distribution for per release contracts and upon event completion for webcasting events.
For service contracts that include stand ready obligations, revenue is recognized evenly over the contract period.
The Company believes recognizing revenue for subscriptions and stand ready obligations using a time-based measure of progress, best reflects the Company’s performance in satisfying the obligations.
For bundled contracts, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
Standalone selling prices are based on observable prices at which the Company separately sells the subscription or services.
If a standalone selling price is not directly observable, the Company uses the residual method to allocate any remaining costs to that subscription or service.
The Company invoices its customers based on the billing schedules designated in its contracts, typically upfront on either a monthly, quarterly or annual basis or per transaction at the completion of the performance obligation.
Deferred revenue for the periods presented was primarily related to subscription and service contracts, which are billed upfront, quarterly or annually, however the revenue has not yet been recognized.
Deferred revenue as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $1,464,000 and $1,249,000, respectively, and is expected to be recognized within one year.
Revenue recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of each reporting period, was approximately $690,000 and $488,000, respectively.
Accounts receivable related to contracts with customers was $2,237,000 and $1,593,000 as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Since substantially all of the contracts have terms of one year or less, the Company has elected to use the practical expedient regarding the existence of a significant financing.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company has capitalized $20,000 and $18,000 of costs to obtain contracts that are expected to be amortized over more than one year.
Significant estimates include the allowance for doubtful accounts and the valuation of goodwill, intangible assets, deferred tax assets, and stock-based compensation.
At the end of each interim period, we estimate the effective tax rate we expect to be applicable for the full year and this rate is applied to our results for the interim year-to-date period and then adjusted for any discrete period items.
Costs incurred to develop our cloud-based platform products are capitalized when the preliminary project phase is complete, management commits to fund the project and it is probable the project will be completed and used for its intended purposes.
No costs were capitalized during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
The Company recorded amortization expense of $204,000 and $201,000 during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Our operating lease agreements are primarily for office space and are included within operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and operating lease liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.


