fls.txt
ACV is a forward-looking operating measure used by management to better understand cloud services (SaaS and other related cloud services) revenue trends within our business, as it reflects our current estimate of revenue to be generated under existing client contracts in the forward 12-month period.


item1.txt
Item 1A.Risk Factors
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net earnings attributable to each class of common stock by the weighted average number of shares outstanding.
Disaggregated Revenue.
b.The costs generate or enhance resources of the Company that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to satisfy) performance obligations in the future.
The Company did not modify any existing leases or execute any new leases during the three months ended July 31, 2019.
In the opinion of our management, these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at July 31, 2019, results of operations for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018.
2016-02, Leases, which established new FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 842 ("ASC 842"), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
Our CODMs are our Principal Executive Officer and our President.
As a result, the Company has computed the earnings per share in compliance with the Earnings Per Share Topic of the FASB ASC, which requires companies that have multiple classes of equity securities to use the “two-class” method in computing earnings per share.
This calculation does not assume that all Class B common shares are converted into Class A common shares.
As of July 31, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $72 million.
For the Company’s diluted earnings per share calculation for Class A shares, the Company uses the “if-converted” method.


item2.txt
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
Our gross margin percentage on subscription fees revenues decreased from 66% to 52% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and July 31, 2019, respectively, primarily due to an increase in capitalized software amortization expense and hosting expense.
Global technology supply chains were threatened by the prospect of US sanctions, Brexit related uncertainty continued, and rising geopolitical tensions roiled energy prices.
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, subscription fees revenues increased by 41%, entirely due to the increased subscription fees revenues from our SCM segment.
This increase was partially offset by a decrease in our IT Consulting segment professional gross margin from 23% to 21% due to the timing of project work.
Typically, our maintenance revenues have had a direct relationship to current and historic license fee revenues, since new licenses are the potential source of new maintenance customers.
Investment and demand for consumer durables have been subdued across advanced and emerging market economies as firms and households continue to hold back on long-term spending.
The primary cost component is maintenance staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.
The projected growth pickup in 2020 is precarious, presuming stabilization in currently stressed emerging market and developing economies and progress toward resolving trade policy differences."
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, gross product research and development costs remained relatively flat when compared to the same period in the previous year.
This decrease was partially offset by an increase of 30% in professional services and other revenues from our Other segment, due to an increase in project work from existing and new customers, while the SCM segment remained flat.


item3.txt
These instruments include, but are not limited to, money-market instruments, bank time deposits, and taxable and tax-advantaged variable rate and fixed rate obligations of corporations, municipalities, and national, state, and local government agencies, in accordance with an investment policy approved by our Board of Directors.
When interest rates rise, the fair market value of our investments in fixed-rate securities declines.


item4.txt
Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.


part2.txt
None.


