fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
However, unlike current GAAP, which requires only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new standard will require both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet.
Marketable securities utilizing Level 2 inputs include municipal bonds.
Cash Equivalents—Cash equivalents include investments in government obligation based money-market funds, other money market instruments and interest-bearing deposits with initial terms of three months or less.
The customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no right to take delivery of the software without incurring a significant penalty.
All of our revenues are derived from external customers.
Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract.
operations to gain a competitive advantage and which is recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI).
The Company adopted the new revenue standard effective May 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method.
Remaining Performance Obligations.
Nature of Products and Services.
In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit, which the Company has determined to be six years, which will have an impact of $1.1 million.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
Services are typically billed as performed.


item2.txt
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
This decrease was partially offset by a 43% increase in subscription fees revenues and to a lesser extent a 2% increase in maintenance revenues.
We estimate the value of options granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
If such need arises, we may be required to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing.
On August 19, 2002, our Board of Directors approved a resolution authorizing the repurchase of up to an additional 2.0 million shares of our Class A common stock.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
Professional services and other gross margin is directly related to the level of services and other revenues.
This increase is primarily due to the timing of billings and cash collections.
The SCM segment also includes (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.
For both the three months and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, our SCM segment constituted approximately 98% and 99% of total license fee revenues, respectively.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.


item3.txt
Many of our investments carry a degree of interest rate risk.
These cash balances represent operating balances only and are invested in short-term time deposits of the local bank.


item4.txt
Item 6.Exhibits


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings


