fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-Q are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
Customers on the DMI and NGC platforms will be able to add pre-packaged Halo advanced analytics capabilities to their subscriptions to drive quick insights and appropriate actions for their businesses.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, we excluded options to purchase 12,130 and 57,598 Class A Common Shares, respectively, and for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2017, we excluded options to purchase 374,439 and 337,500 Class A Common Shares, respectively, from the computation of diluted earnings per Class A Common Shares.
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net earnings attributable to each class of common stock by the weighted average number of shares outstanding.
Deferred Revenue.
Consequently, it is not practical to show these items by operating segment.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The fair value of deferred revenues in a business combination is considered to be an assumed liability (which must arise from a legal performance obligation) and, accordingly, is estimated based on the direct cost of fulfilling the obligation plus a normal profit margin, which approximates fair value.
Operating segments are defined as components of a public entity about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision makers, or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
We preliminarily allocated $5,919,000 of the total purchase price to goodwill, which has been assigned to the Supply Chain Management segment and is deductible for income tax purposes.


item2.txt
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, license fee revenues increased 50% and 6%, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the prior year.
Our selling expenses generally include the salary and commissions paid to our sales professionals, along with marketing, promotional, travel and associated costs.
For the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, the gross margin percentage had a slight uptick to 79% from 77%, respectively, primarily due to increased maintenance revenue and cost containment efforts.
We recorded gains of approximately $564,000 and $170,000 the three and nine months ended January 31, 2017, respectively, from our trading securities portfolio.
International revenues represented approximately 20% and 17% of total revenues in the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on the amount of stock compensation expense.
We capitalize certain computer software development costs in accordance with the Intangibles-Goodwill and Other Topic of the FASB’s Accounting Standards Codification.
Amortization of capitalized computer software development costs is included in the cost of license revenues in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Numerous factors contribute to the amount of the discounts provided, such as previous customer purchases, the number of customer sites utilizing the software, the number of modules purchased and the number of users, as well as the overall size of the contract.
We estimate the value of options granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Services and other gross margin is directly related to the level of services and other revenues.
2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers – Deferral of Effective Date, which defers the implementation of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, for one year from the initial effective date.
We recorded gains of approximately $997,000 and $1.4 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively, from our trading securities portfolio.
We do not currently have a bank line of credit.
In August 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
Accordingly, our sales through the DMI channel are typically recorded on a gross basis.


item3.txt
We have not engaged in any hedging activities.
However, expenses incurred in connection with these sales are typically denominated in the local currencies.


item4.txt
 Item 5.


part2.txt
 Item 4.


