fls.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
Fees for our software licenses are generally due within 30 days of contract execution.
The Company’s results for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
Diluted earnings per share for Class B shares under the two-class method are $0.04 and $0.08 for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, and $0.09 and $0.17 for the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Basic per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B shares.
-The Company does not evaluate a contract for a significant financing component if payment is expected within one year or less from the transfer of the promised items to the customer.
The Company’s total revenue impact is $1.2 million, with approximately 70% impacting the fiscal year ending April 30, 2019, which is the result of recognizing revenue for the license component of its term licenses and certain perpetual license contracts that were previously recognized over time due to the lack of vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value at the point-in-time at which control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Deferred revenue consists of amounts collected prior to having completed the performance of maintenance, SaaS, hosting, and managed services.
In addition, this method assumes the dilutive effect if Class A stock options are converted to Class A Common Shares and the undistributed earnings are allocated evenly to both Class A and B Common Shares including Class A Common Shares issued pursuant to those converted stock options.
SaaS solutions and maintenance are typically billed in advance on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis.
This allocation is based on management’s judgment after considering the dividend rights of the two classes of common stock, the control of the Class B shareholders and the convertibility rights of the Class B Common Shares into Class A Common Shares.
For our basic earnings per share calculation, we use the “two-class” method.
No one customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017.


item2.txt
We recorded losses of approximately $700,000 and $312,000 for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, respectively, from our trading securities portfolio.
Changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on the amount of stock-based compensation expense.
License fee gross margin percentage tends to be directly related to the level of license fee revenues due to the relatively fixed cost of computer software amortization expense, amortization of acquired software and the sales mix between our direct and indirect channels.
The increase in cash used in investing activities when compared to the same period in the prior year was due primarily to an increase in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by lower capitalized computer software development costs.
Included in cost of license fees and subscription fees.
For the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, our SCM segment constituted approximately 96% and 100% of total license fee revenues, respectively.
Under this repurchase plan, through October 31, 2018, we have repurchased 1,053,679 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $6.2 million.
Our gross margin percentage on professional services and other revenues decreased from 32% for the three months ended October 31, 2017 to 27% for the three months ended October 31, 2018.
Under this repurchase plan, through October 31, 2018, we have repurchased 1,053,679 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $6.2 million.
Our business in recent periods has generated substantial positive cash flow from operations, excluding purchases and proceeds of sale of trading securities.
Included in cost of license fees and subscription fees.
We have historically funded, and continue to fund, our operations and capital expenditures primarily with cash generated from operating activities.


item3.txt
In addition, our investments in equity securities are subject to stock market volatility.
These instruments are denominated in U.S. dollars.


item4.txt
 Item 6.


part2.txt
None.


