fls.txt
We discuss certain factors in greater detail in “Business Overview” below.


item1.txt
During the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, we granted options for 1,063,000 and 1,189,000 shares of Class A common stock, respectively.
Significant Judgments.
The Other segment consists of software and services provided to our legacy enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) customers, as well as corporate overhead and other common expenses.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately two-thirds of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months, with the remainder recognized thereafter.
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries
In addition to our core SCM software business, we also offer technology staffing and consulting services through our wholly-owned subsidiary, The Proven Method, Inc., in the IT Consulting segment.
Historically, we have not been required to make any payments under such indemnifications.
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries
•Level 2—Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets.
Revenue from a SaaS solution is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement.
As of October 31, 2019, we had a total of 4,333,117 options outstanding and as of October 31, 2018, we had a total of 4,119,923 options outstanding.
We do not have any intersegment revenue.
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net earnings attributable to each class of common stock by the weighted average number of shares outstanding.


item2.txt
We have observed that there is a tendency for services and other revenues, other than from IT Consulting, to lag changes in license and subscription revenues by one to three quarters, as new licenses and subscriptions in one quarter often involve implementation and consulting services in subsequent quarters, for which we recognize revenues only as we perform those services.
The increase in the percentage of sales by our direct sales channel for the six month period was due to our indirect channel selling proportionately more SaaS than license contracts compared to our direct channel.
The Company enables enterprises to accelerate their operations from product concept to customer availability.
Our business in recent periods has generated substantial positive cash flow from operations, excluding purchases and proceeds of sale of trading securities.
The majority of our current license fee revenue is generated from additional users and scope from our existing customers.
For the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, our SCM segment constituted approximately 97% and 96% of total license fee revenues, respectively.
License fee gross margin percentage for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 decreased and increased, respectively, when compared to the same period in the prior year.
respectively, for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to timing of additional sales to our existing ERP customers.
The Other segment consists of software and services provided to our legacy enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) customers, as well as corporate overhead and other common expenses.
The decrease in cash used in investing activities when compared to the same period in the prior year was mainly due to decreases in purchases of property and capitalized computer software development costs.
The indirect channel margins for the current quarter decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year due to the mix of value-added reseller (“VAR”) commission rates.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, subscription fees revenues increased by 64% and 53%, respectively, primarily due to an increase in the number of contracts, contracts with a higher Annual Contract Value, as well as an increase in multi-year contracts.


item3.txt
These cash balances represent operating balances only and are invested in short-term time deposits of the local bank.
We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $0.1 million and $0.2 million for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to an exchange rate loss of approximately $0.1 million and $0.4 million for the same periods in the prior year.


item4.txt
Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.


part2.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities


