fls.txt
The term “fiscal 2019” and “fiscal 2018” refers to our fiscal years ending April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.


item1.txt
The cash dividend is payable on December 5, 2018 to Class A and Class B shareholders of record at the close of business on November 19, 2018.
We are not currently involved in legal proceedings requiring disclosure under this item.
Additionally, we are applying the practical expedient to exclude any financing component from consideration for any contracts with payment terms of one year or less since we rarely offer terms extending beyond one year.
SaaS solutions and maintenance are typically billed in advance (on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis).
H. Comprehensive Income
Diluted per share amounts for Class A Common Shares are shown above.
Diluted earnings per share for Class B Common Shares under the two-class method are $0.05 and $0.09 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For our basic earnings per share calculation, we use the “two-class” method.
The costs generate or enhance resources of the Company that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to satisfy) performance obligations in the future.
We record stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period directly to additional paid-in capital.
We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed.
Nature of Products and Services.
 Item 1A.


item2.txt
If available, such financing may result in dilution to our shareholders or higher interest expense.
Stock-Based Compensation.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
The primary component of cost of services and other revenues is services staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.
The SCM segment accounted for 97% and 96% of total maintenance revenues for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, our total gross margin percentage decreased when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to our lower margins on license fee revenue and professional services and other revenue, partially offset by higher margins on subscription fees and maintenance revenue.
Due to intense competition in our industry, we do discount license fees from our published list price.
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We establish a deferred tax asset for the expected future benefit of net operating loss and credit carry-forwards.
We expect this pattern to continue.
We have historically funded, and continue to fund, our operations and capital expenditures primarily with cash generated from operating activities.


item3.txt
Many of our investments carry a degree of interest rate risk.
The fair market value of these instruments as of July 31, 2018 was approximately $77.9 million compared to $85.8 million as of July 31, 2017.


item4.txt
 Item 4.


part2.txt
 Item 6.


