fls.txt
Although forward-looking statements in this report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017, as amended by Amendment No.
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as allowance for doubtful accounts, overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $16.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The change in accounting for forfeitures was applied using a modified retrospective transition method and resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $1.9 million.
These amounts accrued for capital equipment purchases have been excluded from the consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended December 29, 2017, and are expected to be paid in subsequent periods.
The Company reassesses the fair value of its contingent consideration liabilities on a quarterly basis and records any fair value adjustments to earnings in the period that they are determined.
There were no changes to the fair value of the Level 3 liabilities during the three months ended December 29, 2017.


item2.txt
This report and other documents we have filed with the SEC contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
This increase in revenue was primarily driven by our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve, the increasing number of applications for the Internet of Things, and our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, industrial, medical and military.
This increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily the result of cash generated from operations of $361 million, partially offset by the repurchase of 1.65 million shares of common stock for $173 million, dividend payments of $59 million, and capital expenditures of $28 million during the three months ended December 29, 2017.
We generally experience seasonal peaks during the second half of the calendar year, primarily as a result of increased worldwide production of consumer electronics in anticipation of increased holiday sales, whereas our second fiscal quarter is typically lower and in line with seasonal industry trends.
We generated net revenue of $1,051.9 million for the three months ended December 29, 2017, an increase of $137.6 million or 15%, as compared with $914.3 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
This increase in net revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2017, is primarily related to an increase in demand for our components from a key smartphone customer as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, partially offset by decreases in average selling prices.
The $72.9 million increase in gross profit for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of favorable product mix and higher unit volumes that positively impacted gross profit by $81.2 million.
Gross profit margin increased to 51.0% of net revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, due to the overall increase in revenue and the aforementioned factors.
The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development– related expenses.
Research and development expense increased as a percentage of net revenue when compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017 as a result of our increased investment in developing new product capabilities.


item3.txt
Our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (time deposits, certificates of deposit and money market funds) that total approximately $1,681.5 million as of December 29, 2017.
Based on our results of operations for the three months ended December 29, 2017, a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash and cash equivalents to zero would result in an immaterial reduction of interest income with a de minimis impact on income before taxes.
However, we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures.
In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance.
The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application.


item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.


part2.txt
The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act.
The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.
On January 30, 2018, the Compensation Committee (the “Compensation Committee”) of the Company’s Board of Directors amended the Company’s Fiscal Year 2018 Executive Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) to provide that the portion of the incentive awards under the Incentive Plan that previously was attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP earnings per share (“EPS”) performance metric will instead be attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP operating income performance metric.


