The Company’s analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures, normally included in annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations.
The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, filed with the SEC on November 15, 2018, as amended by Amendment No.
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, marketable securities, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
The second quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each consisted of 13 weeks and ended on March 29, 2019, and March 30, 2018, respectively.
In August 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) deferred the effective date of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), (“ASU 2014-09”), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The Company has determined the impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements is not material.
Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.This report and other documents we have filed with the SEC contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
We generated net revenue of $810.4 million for the three months ended March 29, 2019, a decrease of $103.0 million or 11.3%, as compared with $913.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Net revenue decreased by 9.3% or $182.9 million to $1,782.4 million for the six months ended March 29, 2019, as compared with $1,965.3 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
This decrease in net revenue for the three and six months ended March 29, 2019, is primarily related to weakness in smartphone demand, partially offset by the increasing number of applications of the Internet of Things, our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, consumer, industrial, infrastructure, medical, and military, and our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve.We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.