 Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  



Overview  



We are one of the leading providers of worldwide manufacturing services and solutions. We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, digital home, healthcare, industrial and energy, mobility, networking and telecommunications, packaging, point of sale and printing industries. Our services enable our customers to reduce manufacturing costs, improve supply-chain management, reduce inventory obsolescence, lower transportation costs and reduce product fulfillment time. Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.  





Table of Contents 



We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability. We depend, and expect to continue to depend, upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net revenue, which in turn depends upon their growth, viability and financial stability. Based on net revenue, for the three months ended November 30, 2017, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Ingenico S.A., LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., SolarEdge Technologies, Inc., Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.  



We conduct our operations in facilities that are located worldwide, including but not limited to, China, Hungary, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore and the United States. We derived a substantial majority, 92.3%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months ended November 30, 2017. Our global manufacturing production sites allow customers to manufacture products simultaneously in the optimal locations for their products. Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.  





We monitor the current economic environment and its potential impact on both the customers we serve as well as our end-markets and closely manage our costs and capital resources so that we can respond appropriately as circumstances change.  



In September 2017, our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico received significant hurricane damage. During the three months ended November 30, 2017, we recognized $7.4 million of expenses, net of insurance proceeds of $10.3 million. As we continue to assess the impact to our operations, we may incur additional costs in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. We also expect the majority of these costs will ultimately be offset by insurance coverage.  



Summary of Results  



The following table sets forth, for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, certain key operating results and other  









Table of Contents 



Key Performance Indicators  



Management regularly reviews financial and non-financial performance indicators to assess the Company’s operating results.  







 (1)  The sales cycle is calculated as the sum of days in accounts receivable and days in inventory, less the days in accounts payable; accordingly, the variance in the sales cycle quarter over quarter is a direct result of changes in these indicators.  



 (2)  During the three months ended August 31, 2017, the decrease in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of sales and collections activity.  



 (3)  During the three months ended November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter due to increased demand in the mobility business as well as the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter. During the three months ended May 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.  



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  



The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect our reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions based upon historical experience and various other factors and circumstances. Management believes that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances; however, actual results may vary from these estimates and assumptions under different future circumstances. For further discussion of our significant accounting policies, refer to Note 1 — “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017.  



Recent Accounting Pronouncements  



See Note 13 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.  





Table of Contents 



Results of Operations  







The Three Months Ended November 30, 2017 compared to the Three Months Ended November 30, 2016  



Net Revenue. Net revenue increased 9.4% to $5.6 billion during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $5.1 billion during the three months ended November 30, 2016. Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 13% due to a 12% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and a 1% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare and packaging businesses. EMS segment revenues increased 6% primarily due to a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our digital home business, a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our industrial and energy business, a 1% increase in revenues from customers in our automotive and transportation business and a 1% increase spread across various industries within the EMS segment.  



Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition. Accordingly, we do not differentiate or separately report revenue increases generated by acquisitions as opposed to existing business. In addition, the added cost structures associated with our acquisitions have historically been relatively insignificant when compared to our overall cost structure.  









Foreign source revenue represented 92.3% of our net revenue for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016.  





Table of Contents 



Gross Profit. Gross profit of $469.3 million (8.4% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $431.5 million (8.5% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2016, was relatively consistent as a percentage of net revenue.  



Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $293.1 million (5.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $214.1 million (4.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2016. During the three months ended November 30, 2017, we recognized an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense due to the modification of certain performance-based restricted stock awards and a one-time cash-settled award while the three months ended November 30, 2016 included a $21.0 million reversal of stock-based compensation expense due to decreased expectations for the vesting of certain performance-based restricted stock awards. The remaining increase is primarily driven by an increase in salary and salary related expenses and other costs to support business growth and development.  



Research and Development. Research and development expenses remained relatively consistent at $9.1 million (0.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $7.6 million (0.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2016.  



Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization of intangibles increased to $10.0 million during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $8.3 million during the three months ended November 30, 2016, primarily due to amortization from intangible assets related to the Lewis Engineering and True-Tech acquisitions that occurred in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, respectively.  



Restructuring and Related Charges.  







 (1) Includes $5.9 million and $7.4 million recorded in the EMS segment, $4.6 million and $11.5 million recorded in the DMS segment and $0.9 million and $17.0 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Except for asset write-off costs, all restructuring and related charges are cash costs.  



 (2)  Primarily relates to the 2017 Restructuring Plan.  





On September 15, 2016, our Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align our global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness. This action includes headcount reductions across our Selling, General and Administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).  



Upon completion of the 2017 Restructuring Plan, we expect to recognize approximately $195.0 million in restructuring and related charges. We have incurred $164.6 million of costs-to-date as of November 30, 2017. The remaining costs for employee severance and benefits costs, asset write-off costs and other related costs are anticipated to be incurred during the remainder of fiscal year 2018.  



The 2017 Restructuring Plan, once complete, is expected to yield annualized cost savings beginning in fiscal year 2019 in the range of $70.0 million to $90.0 million. The annual cost savings is expected to be reflected as a reduction in cost of revenue as well as reduction of selling, general and administrative expense.  



See Note 11 – “Restructuring and Related Charges” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of restructuring and related charges for the 2017 Restructuring Plan.  





Table of Contents 



Other Expense. Other expense increased to $5.9 million for the three months ended November 30, 2017 compared to $4.7 million for the three months ended November 30, 2016. The increase is primarily due to an increase in fees associated with the asset-backed securitization programs. Additionally, we recognized a loss in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 for a cost method investment.  



Interest Income. Interest income increased to $3.8 million during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $2.5 million during the three months ended November 30, 2016, due to increased investments.  



Interest Expense. Interest expense increased to $36.2 million during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $32.8 million during the three months ended November 30, 2016, due to additional borrowings on the Revolving Credit Facility and higher interest rates.  



Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense reflects an effective tax rate of 40.5% for the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to an effective tax rate of 33.6% for the three months ended November 30, 2016. The effective tax rate for the three months ended November 30, 2017 increased primarily due to increased losses in jurisdictions with existing valuation allowances, driven in part by higher stock-based compensation expense.  



The recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation will reduce the corporate tax rate, limit or eliminate certain tax deductions and change the taxation of foreign earnings of U.S. multinational companies. The enacted changes include a mandatory income inclusion (deemed repatriation) of the historically untaxed foreign earnings of a U.S. company’s foreign subsidiaries, and will tax such income at reduced tax rates. This legislation could result in a material increase in our provision for income taxes, particularly as it relates to the U.S. tax on a deemed repatriation of the foreign earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and our correlated decision on future cash repatriation. The determination of the transition tax is contingent on further guidance to be issued by the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, including the categorization of foreign subsidiary balance sheet assets. While we have significant unremitted foreign earnings, we expect to have U.S. tax attributes to reduce the transition tax. In light of U.S. tax reform, we are also reviewing our assertion related to the indefinite reinvestment of historical earnings for which a deferred tax liability has not already been recorded as it applies to the foreign income tax consequences of a future remittance. We are currently assessing the impact this enacted legislation may have on our Consolidated Financial Statements.  



Non-GAAP (Core) Financial Measures  



The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations include certain non-GAAP financial measures as identified in the reconciliation below. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed herein do not have standard meaning and may vary from the non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies or how we may calculate those measures in other instances from time to time. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Also, our “core” financial measures should not be construed as an inference by us that our future results will be unaffected by those items that are excluded from our “core” financial measures.  



Management believes that the non-GAAP “core” financial measures set forth below are useful to facilitate evaluating the past and future performance of our ongoing manufacturing operations over multiple periods on a comparable basis by excluding the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition costs and certain purchase accounting adjustments, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, other than temporary impairment on securities, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations and certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges. Among other uses, management uses non-GAAP “core” financial measures to make operating decisions, assess business performance and as a factor in determining certain employee performance when evaluating incentive compensation.  



We determine the tax effect of the items excluded from “core” earnings and “core” basic and diluted earnings per share based upon evaluation of the statutory tax treatment and the applicable tax rate of the jurisdiction in which the pre-tax items were incurred, and for which realization of the resulting tax benefit, if any, is expected. In certain jurisdictions where we do not expect to realize a tax benefit (due to existing tax incentives or a history of operating losses or other factors resulting in a valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets), a reduced or 0% tax rate is applied.  



We are reporting “core” operating income and “core” earnings to provide investors with an additional method for assessing operating income and earnings, by presenting what we believe are our “core” manufacturing operations. A significant portion (based on the respective values) of the items that are excluded for purposes of calculating “core” operating income and “core” earnings also impacted certain balance sheet assets, resulting in a portion of an asset being written off without a corresponding recovery of cash we may have previously spent with respect to the asset. In the case of restructuring and related charges, we may make associated cash payments in the future. In addition, although, for purposes of calculating “core” operating income and “core” earnings, we exclude stock-based compensation expense (which we anticipate continuing to incur in the future) because it is a non-cash expense, any associated stock issued would result in an increase in our outstanding shares of stock, which would result in the dilution of our stockholders’ ownership interest. We encourage you to consider these matters when evaluating the utility of these non-GAAP financial measures.  





Table of Contents 







 (1)  Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $10.3 million, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.  



Acquisitions and Expansion  



As discussed in Note 12 – “Business Acquisitions” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we completed one acquisition during the three months ended November 30, 2017 which was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each business from the date of acquisition.  



Seasonality  



Production levels for a portion of the DMS segment are subject to seasonal influences. We may realize greater net revenue during our first fiscal quarter, which ends on November 30, due to higher demand for consumer related products during the holiday selling season. Therefore, quarterly results should not be relied upon as necessarily being indicative of results for the entire fiscal year.  



Liquidity and Capital Resources  



We believe that our level of liquidity sources, which includes available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our asset-backed securitization programs and under our uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs, cash on hand, funds provided by operations and the access to the capital markets, will be adequate to fund our capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, share repurchases, any potential acquisitions and our working capital requirements for the next 12 months.  





Table of Contents 



Cash and Cash Equivalents  



As of November 30, 2017, we had approximately $746.3 million in cash and cash equivalents. As our growth remains predominantly outside of the United States, a significant portion of such cash and cash equivalents are held by our foreign subsidiaries. We estimate that approximately $597.0 million of the cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries could not be repatriated to the United States as of November 30, 2017 without potential income tax consequences. As a result of the enacted U.S. tax reform legislation and after the mandatory income inclusion (deemed repatriation) of the historically untaxed foreign earnings of a U.S. company’s foreign subsidiaries, we expect a significant portion of the cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries will no longer be subject to U.S. income tax consequences upon a subsequent actual repatriation to the United States. However, a portion of this cash may still be subject to foreign income tax consequences upon future remittance.  



Notes Payable and Credit Facilities  







 (1) We believe that our cash on hand and available borrowing under our credit facilities will be adequate to fund the payment of the 8.250% Senior Notes. However, we anticipate that we will enter into a new borrowing agreement to repay our 8.250% Senior Notes prior to maturity.  





During the three months ended November 30, 2017, the interest rates on the Revolving Credit Facility borrowings ranged from 2.4% to 4.4% and the interest rates on the Term Loan Facility ranged from 2.6% to 2.7%.  



Additionally, our foreign subsidiaries have various additional credit facilities that finance their future growth and any corresponding working capital needs.  



As of November 30, 2017, we had $2.2 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities. We may need to finance day-to-day working capital needs, as well as future growth and any corresponding working capital needs, with additional borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility and our other credit facilities as well as additional public and private offerings of our debt and equity. We continue to assess our capital structure and evaluate the merits of redeploying available cash to reduce existing debt or repurchase common stock.  



Currently, we have a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering the potential sale of an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources.  





Table of Contents 



Our Senior Notes and our Credit Facility contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants. A violation of these covenants could negatively impact our liquidity by restricting our ability to borrow under the notes payable and credit facilities and potentially causing acceleration of amounts due under these notes payable and credit facilities. As of November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants under our Senior Notes and Credit Facility. Refer to Note 6 – “Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.  



Asset-Backed Securitization and Trade Accounts Receivable Sale Programs  



Asset-Backed Securitization Programs  









 (1)  Maximum amount available at any one time.  



 (2)  On November 9, 2017, the program was extended to October 20, 2020.  



In connection with our asset-backed securitization programs, as of November 30, 2017, we sold $1.4 billion of eligible trade accounts receivable, which represents the face amount of total sold outstanding receivables at that date. In exchange, we received cash proceeds of $602.0 million and recorded a deferred purchase price receivable of $760.0 million. As of November 30, 2017, we had up to $0.1 million in available liquidity under our asset-backed securitization programs.  



Our asset-backed securitization programs contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants. As of November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants under our asset-backed securitization programs. Refer to Note 7 – “Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the programs.  



Trade Accounts Receivable Sale Programs   







 (1)  Maximum amount available at any one time.  



 (2)  The maximum amount under the program will be reduced to $650.0 million on February 1, 2018.  



 (3)  Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 15 days prior notice.  



During the three months ended November 30, 2017, we sold $1.1 billion of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.1 billion. As of November 30, 2017, we had up to $543.9 million in available liquidity under our trade accounts receivable sale programs.  





Table of Contents 



Capital Expenditures  



For fiscal year 2018, we anticipate our net capital expenditures, which do not include any amounts spent on acquisitions, will be approximately $700.0 million, principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments. The amount of actual capital expenditures may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, among other things.  



Cash Flows  



The following table sets forth selected consolidated cash flow information during the three months ended November 30, 2017  







Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended November 30, 2017 was primarily due to higher inventories, prepaid expenses and other current assets and accounts receivable, partially offset by higher accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities. The increase in inventories supports expected sales levels in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 and also is due to increased demand. The increase in prepaid expense and other current assets is primarily due to an increase in deferred purchase price receivables from an increase in receivables sold and the timing of cash collections and an increase in the value added tax receivables. The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the timing of sales and cash collections activity as well as higher sales levels. The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities was primarily due to an increase in capital expenditures and materials purchases due to increased demand in the mobility business and the timing of purchases and cash payments.  







Dividends and Share Repurchases  



We currently expect to continue to declare and pay regular quarterly dividends of an amount similar to our past declarations. However, the declaration and payment of future dividends are discretionary and will be subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial performance.  



In July 2017, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of our common stock. The 2017 Share Repurchase Program expires on August 31, 2018. As of November 30, 2017, 3.2 million shares had been repurchased for $93.2 million and $356.7 million remains available under the 2017 Share Repurchase Program.  



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



The following table provides information relating to our repurchase of common stock during the three months ended  







 (1) The purchases include amounts that are attributable to shares surrendered to us by employees to satisfy, in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and the exercise of stock appreciation rights, their tax withholding obligations.  



 (2) In July 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of our common stock as publicly announced in a press release issued on July 20, 2017. The share repurchase program expires on August 31, 2018.  



