PART II—OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 1. Legal Proceedings  



We are party to certain lawsuits in the ordinary course of business. We do not believe that these proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  



 Item 1A. Risk Factors  



For information regarding risk factors that could affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future results, see Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017. For further information on our forward-looking statements see Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



The following table provides information relating to our repurchase of common stock during the three months ended  







 (1) The purchases include amounts that are attributable to shares surrendered to us by employees to satisfy, in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and the exercise of stock appreciation rights, their tax withholding obligations.  



 (2) In July 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of our common stock as publicly announced in a press release issued on July 20, 2017. The share repurchase program expires on August 31, 2018.  



 Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities  



None.  



 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures  



Not applicable.  



 Item 5. Other Information  



None.  





Table of Contents 



 Item 6. Exhibits  



Index to Exhibits  







Table of Contents 



Index to Exhibits  





 † Indicates management compensatory plan, contract or arrangement  







Certain instruments with respect to long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries are not filed herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K since the total amount of securities authorized under each such instrument does not exceed  



10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Registrant agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.  





Table of Contents 



SIGNATURES  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  





