fls.txt



item1.txt
Our future success depends in part on our proprietary technology, technical know-how and other intellectual property.
channels or otherwise, our product sales could be adversely affected.
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories.
Recently and in past years, we have initiated reductions in our workforce to align our employee base with our business strategy, our anticipated revenue base or with our areas of focus.
The Company incurred acquisition-related costs for the ASTRO Acquisition of approximately $0.3 million and $1.3 million for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
Projected net sales were based on the Company's internal projections, including analysis of the target markets.
Unauthorized parties have copied and may in the future attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
Bose is our largest competitor.
Bose is our largest competitor.
Policy changes in the United States or other countries, given our lack of manufacturing in those countries or for other protectionist reasons, could result in tariffs or other adverse tax consequences or may cause us to change the structure of how we currently operate, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
In addition, we rely on channel inventory data from our retailer and distributor customers.
$1.0 million of the total consideration was retained by the Company for the purpose of ensuring the seller's representations, warranties and covenants.
As of December 31 and March 31, 2017, the Company had $2.1 million and $3.0 million, respectively, of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.
Our future success depends in part on our proprietary technology, technical know-how and other intellectual property.


item2.txt
The full year bonus is expected to be made in the first quarter of the following fiscal year, and the operating cash flow for that period will be negatively affected as a result.
Net cash used in investing activities was $116.2 million, primarily due to $85.0 million of purchase price for the acquisition of the ASTRO business (refer to "Note 2- Business Acquisition" to the condensed consolidated financial statements) and $27.6 million of purchases of property, plant and equipment.
We will continue to explore other innovative experiences for the Smart Home.
You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
The decrease for the three-month period was primarily driven by the decreases in sales across most webcam products within this product category.


item3.txt
These contracts generally mature within one month.


item4.txt
The controls evaluation was conducted under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”).


part2.txt
As we expand the number of platforms and software applications with which our products are compatible, we may not be successful in launching products for those platforms or software applications, we may not be successful in establishing strong relationships with the new platform or software owners, or we may negatively impact our ability to develop and produce high-quality products on a timely basis for those platforms and software applications or we may otherwise adversely affect our relationships with existing platform or software owners.
Conversely, strengthening of currency rates may also increase our product component costs and other expenses denominated in those currencies, adversely affecting operating results.
For example, policy changes in the United States or China predicated on our presence in those countries could adversely affect where we recognize profit and our effective income tax rate.
The peripherals industry is intensely competitive.
Additional reporting obligations are being considered by the European Union.
These operational shifts increase the risk that we have excess or obsolete inventory if we do not accurately forecast product demand.
For the three months ended December 31, 2017, approximately 47% of our revenue was in non-U.S. denominated currencies.
If we do not successfully coordinate the worldwide manufacturing and distribution of our products, we could lose sales.
We believe sales of PCs will continue to decline, and that our future growth will depend on our diversified product growth opportunities beyond the PC, and if we do not successfully execute on our growth opportunities, if our growth opportunities are more limited than we expect or if our sales of PC peripherals are less than we expect, our operating results could be adversely affected.


