fls.txt



item1.txt
Operating performance measures are provided directly to the Company's CEO, who is considered to be the Company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker.
Apple, Microsoft and HP are our main competitors worldwide.
 We have experienced large differences between our forecasts and actual demand for our products.
Certain lease agreements include options to renew or terminate the lease, which are not reasonably certain to be exercised and therefore are not factored into our determination of the duration of the lease arrangement.
We expect to continue to enter new categories and markets.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
predicated on our presence in those countries could adversely affect where we recognize profit and our effective income tax rate.
•Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers.
Lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity.
Unauthorized parties have copied and may in the future attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
We have developed long-term value in our brands and have invested significantly in design and in our existing and new brands over the past several years.
These conditions could adversely affect our financial results.
Total variable lease costs were immaterial during the three months ended June 30, 2019.
There was no borrowing outstanding under these lines of credit as of June 30, 2019 or March 31, 2019.


item2.txt
You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
Our sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased 6% and 12% in the Americas and EMEA, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
PC Webcams sales decreased 5% in the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Logitech is a world leader in designing, manufacturing and marketing products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
As we continue our efforts to lower our costs and improve our operating leverage, we may or may not fully realize our goals.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
While we view the small and medium sized user groups opportunity to be large and relatively unaddressed, this is a new and evolving market segment that we and our competitors are developing.
Our effective income tax rate in a given fiscal year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in the succeeding fiscal year or years.
The implementation of the existing U.S. requirements and any additional requirements in Europe could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products.
Our competitors have the ability to bring new products to market quickly and at competitive prices.
We could also frustrate our customers and lose shelf space.
In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to the due diligence process of determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities.
Such laws and regulations, and the variation between jurisdictions, as well as additional security measures and risk, could subject us to costs, allocation of additional resources, liabilities or negative publicity that could adversely affect our business.
As our supply chain is complex and we use contract manufacturers for some of our products, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may adversely affect our reputation.


