fls.txt



item1.txt
Significant management judgments and estimates are used to determine the breakage of the programs in any accounting period.
For example, if sales at large retail stores are displaced as a result of bankruptcy, competition from Internet sales channels or otherwise, our product sales could be adversely affected.
The weakening of currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar adversely affects the U.S. Dollar value of our non-U.S.
Return rates can fluctuate over time but are sufficiently predictable to allow the Company to estimate expected future product returns.
These requirements create procurement and design challenges, which, among other things, require us to incur additional costs identifying suppliers and contract manufacturers who can provide or obtain compliant materials, parts and end products.
There can be no assurance that we will fully realize the desired and anticipated benefits from these activities.
systems, breaches of confidential information, data corruption or other data security issues could adversely affect our brands, reputation, relationships with customers or business partners, or consumer or investor perception of our company, business or products or result in disruptions of our operations, loss of intellectual property or our customers’ or our business partners’ data, reduced value of our investments in our brands, design, research and development or engineering, or costs to address regulatory inquiries or actions or private litigation, to respond to customers or partners or to rebuild or restore our websites or information technology systems.
•Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of the Company's shareholders.
In addition, discontinuing product categories, even categories that we consider non-strategic, reduces the size and diversification of our business and causes us to be more dependent on a smaller number of product categories.
The Company's contracts with customers typically do not include significant financing components as the period between the satisfaction of performance obligations and timing of payment are generally within one year.
We have developed long-term value in our brands and have invested significantly in design and in our existing and new brands over the past several years.
The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited, and the implementation of these requirements may decrease the number of suppliers capable of supplying our needs for certain metals.
Any loss of a major partner or distribution channel or other channel disruption could make us more dependent on alternate channels, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and distribution channels, increase our marketing costs, or adversely impact buying and inventory patterns, payment terms or other contractual terms.
These requirements create procurement and design challenges, which, among other things, require us to incur additional costs identifying suppliers and contract manufacturers who can provide or obtain compliant materials, parts and end products.


item2.txt
The adoption of ASU 2016-01 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Our working capital was $445.5 million as of September 30, 2017.
Our net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 in EMEA remained flat, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
There are no financial covenants under these lines of credit with which we must comply.


item3.txt
Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments.


item4.txt



part2.txt
to successfully execute our sales and marketing plans, or for other reasons.
These operational shifts increase the risk that we have excess or obsolete inventory if we do not accurately forecast product demand.
In addition, other intellectual property laws or our confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions may not adequately protect our intellectual property.
We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform.
As part of the restructuring plans, we reduced the size of our product portfolio and the assortment of similar products at similar price points within each product category over the past several fiscal years.
We recorded an additional impairment charge of goodwill of $122.7 million related to our Lifesize video conferencing discontinued operations in fiscal year 2015, reducing its goodwill to zero, which substantially impacted results of discontinued operations again.
For example, policy changes in the United States or China predicated on our presence in those countries could adversely affect where we recognize profit and our effective income tax rate.
We cannot predict future trade policy, the terms of any renegotiated trade agreements or treaties, or tariffs and their impact on our business.
These new partners, practices and models may require significant management attention and operational resources and may affect our accounting, including revenue recognition, gross margins, and the ability to make comparisons from period to period.


