fls.txt



item1.txt
In addition, from time to time we make strategic venture investments in other companies that provide products and services that are complementary to ours.
We have also experienced turnover in our workforce.
The Company sells its products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers, e-tailers and indirect sales through distributors.
The Company is currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
Sell-through data is subject to limitations due to collection methods and the third-party nature of the data and thus may not be an accurate indicator of actual consumer demand for our products.
The Company’s practice is to fund amounts sufficient to meet the requirements set forth in the applicable employee benefit and tax regulations.
No other countries represented more than 10% of the Company’s total consolidated net sales for the periods presented herein.
Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers.
It can take significant time, resources and expense to overcome negative publicity, reviews or perception.
Interpretation and enforcement of China’s laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future.
The marketable securities for the Company's deferred compensation plan were recorded at a fair value of $20.0 million and $17.7 million, as of June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively, based on quoted market prices.
As we expand the number of platforms and software applications with which our products are compatible, we may not be successful in launching products for those platforms or software applications, we may not be successful in establishing strong relationships with the new platform or software owners, or we may negatively impact our ability to develop and produce high-quality products on a timely basis for those platforms and software applications or we may otherwise adversely affect our relationships with existing platform or software owners.
Dollar-denominated countries could be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations.
While we view the small and medium sized user groups opportunity to be large and relatively unaddressed, this is a new and evolving market segment that we are developing.
•We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers.


item2.txt
The increase for the three-month period was primarily driven by an increase in sales for MX Master 2S Wireless Mouse and the introduction of MX Ergo Wireless Trackball.
The scope of these indemnities varies, but in some instances includes indemnification for damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
The adoption of ASU 2016-01 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
We adopted this standard effective April 1, 2018 and the adoption of ASU 2017-12 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.


item3.txt
Deferred realized and unrealized gain and loss was not material as of June 30, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and completed our exit from the OEM business.
It can take significant time, resources and expense to overcome negative publicity, reviews or perception.
Lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity.
If we do not retain our senior managers or other key employees for any reason, we risk losing institutional knowledge, experience, expertise and other benefits of continuity as well as the ability to attract and retain other key employees.
If our effective income tax rate increases in future periods, our net income and cash flows could be adversely affected.
Divestitures may also involve warranties, indemnification or covenants that could restrict our business or result in litigation, additional expenses or liabilities.
In addition, certain of our sales channel partners could decide to de-emphasize the product categories that we offer in exchange for other product categories that they believe provide them with higher returns.
Sales growth in key markets, including China, is an important part of our expectations for our business.
As a consumer electronics company, our websites are an important presentation of our company, identity and brands and an important means of interaction with and source of information for consumers of our products.


