fls.txt



item1.txt
Logitech International S.A, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, ("Logitech" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences.
Goodwill associated with a number of previous acquisitions could result in impairment charges.
Property, plant and equipment, net in Switzerland, the Company’s home domicile, were $1.8 million and $1.7 million as of September 30, 2019 and March 31, 2019, respectively.
•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
Gains and losses in the fair value of the effective portion of the hedges are deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, at which time the gains or losses are reclassified to cost of goods sold.
We use sell-through data, which represents sales of our products by our direct retailer and e-tailer customers to consumers, and by our distributor customers to their customers, along with other metrics, to assess consumer demand for our products.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, the Company had substantially completed this restructuring plan.
Benefits are provided based on employees’ years of service and earnings, or in accordance with applicable employee benefit regulations.
Platform owners that are competitors have a competitive advantage in designing products for their platforms and may produce peripherals or other products that work better, or are perceived to work better, than our products in connection with those platforms.
In addition to the extra costs and regulatory burdens of our dual regulatory obligations, the two regulatory regimes may not always be compatible and may impose disclosure obligations, operating restrictions or tax effects on our business to which our competitors and other companies are not subject.
The deferred rent and prepaid rent balances were derecognized as of the date of adoption and no adjustment was made to retained earnings.
There are also risks associated with retaliatory tariffs and resulting trade wars.
•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
We also experience competition and pricing pressure from less-established brands, including house brands and local competitors in Asian markets such as Elecom, Buffalo, Rapoo and Xiaomi.


item2.txt
In fiscal year 2019, we paid a cash dividend of CHF 110.7 million (U.S. Dollar amount of $114.0 million) out of retained earnings available at the end of fiscal year 2018.
We had several uncommitted, unsecured bank lines of credit aggregating $77.5 million as of September 30, 2019.
Operating expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased to $204.0 million compared to $191.0 million in the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our shareholders.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition, our competitors may offer customers terms and conditions that may be more favorable than our terms and conditions and may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs, which could impact our revenues and operating margins.
If we are not able to grow our existing and acquired product lines and introduce differentiated products and marketing strategies to separate our products and brands from competitors' products and brands, our mobile speaker and audio headphone efforts will not be successful, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.
In recent years, we have expanded the categories of products we sell and entered new markets.
We are incorporated in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland, and our effective income tax rate benefited from a longstanding ruling from the canton of Vaud through March 31, 2019.
Many of these companies also integrate their products with Logitech's smart home and Harmony remote products.
A trade war could have a significant adverse effect on world trade and the world economy.
Disruption of our relationship with these channel partners, changes in or issues with their business practices, their failure to provide timely and accurate information, changes in distribution partners, practices or models, conflicts among our channels of distribution, or failure to build and scale our own sales force for certain product categories and enterprise channel partners could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition.
We have also experienced turnover in our workforce.
A trade war could have a significant adverse effect on world trade and the world economy.
Our sales channel partners also sell products offered by our competitors and, in the case of retailer house brands, may also be our competitors.


