fls.txt



item1.txt
Although the Company expects to record significant amounts of right-of-use assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheets, the Company is still evaluating the full impact that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The sales and business practices of all such sales channel partners, their compliance with laws and regulations, and their reputations - of which we may or may not be aware - may affect our business and our reputation.
Deferred revenue associated with remaining PCS performance obligation as of December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018 was not material .
Given our manufacturing in those countries, and our lack of manufacturing elsewhere, policy changes in the United States or other countries, such as the tariffs already proposed, implemented and threatened in 2018, present particular risks for us.
Many of these companies also integrate their products with Logitech's smart home and Harmony remote products.
Many of these companies, such as Microsoft, Apple, Google, Cisco, Sony Corporation, Samsung and others, have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the Company identified and recorded an insignificant measurement period adjustment to the preliminary value assigned to goodwill.
We believe that our design and brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business and that maintaining and enhancing our brands is very important to our future growth and success.
The Company has determined that it operates in a single operating segment that encompasses the design, manufacturing and marketing of peripherals for PCs, tablets and other digital platforms.
The Company applies the practical expedient of not disclosing the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected length of one year or less.
In addition to the extra costs and regulatory burdens of our dual regulatory obligations, the two regulatory regimes may not always be compatible and may impose disclosure obligations, operating restrictions or tax effects on our business to which our competitors and other companies are not subject.
Interpretation and enforcement of China’s laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future.
In addition, since fiscal year 2016 we have increased the percentage of our products that we manufacture in our own facilities.
In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected.
For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which is applicable to us and to all companies processing data of European Union residents, became effective in May 2018 and imposes significant fines and sanctions for violation of the Regulation.


item2.txt
The changes in the effective income tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, compared to the same periods ended December 31, 2017, were primarily due to the mix of income and losses in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate and the provisional income tax impact from the Tax Act as of December 31, 2017.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our shareholders.
We strategically invested in our inventory ahead of the recent tariff implementation.
The annual bonus is paid in the first quarter of the following fiscal year, and the operating cash flow for that period is negatively affected as a result.
Although we enter into trading plans for systematic repurchases (e.g., 10b5-1 trading plans) from time to time, our share buyback program provides us with the opportunity to make repurchases during periods of favorable market conditions and is expected to remain in effect for a period of three years.


item3.txt
The notional amounts of currency exchange contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018 relating to foreign currency receivables or payables were $68.3 million and $47.2 million, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We will evaluate acquisition opportunities that could provide us with additional product or service offerings or with additional industry expertise, assets and capabilities.
The moral and regulatory imperatives to avoid purchasing conflict minerals are causing us to incur additional expenses, could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products and could adversely affect the distribution and sales of our products.
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories.
It can take significant time, resources and expense to overcome negative publicity, reviews or perception.
Our manufacturing operations at third-party contractors could be adversely affected by contractual disagreements, by labor unrest, by natural disasters, by strains on local communications, trade, and other infrastructures, by competition for the available labor pool or manufacturing capacity, by increasing labor and other costs, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe.
We reserve for cooperative marketing arrangements, incentive programs and pricing programs with our sales channel partners.
The peripherals industry is intensely competitive.
Dollar-denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide.
If we deem it necessary to alter all or a portion of our activities or operations in response to such policies, agreements or tariffs, our capital and operating costs may increase.


