fls.txt



item1.txt
We maintain a majority-owned subsidiary in Mexico (since 1998) and two divisions in each of Taiwan (since 1998) and China (since 2005).
Our Mexico location closed all operations in May 2013 (final closure is pending sale of our local 15,000 sq.
Our China location also serves as the engineering design support center responsible for arranging pre-production scheduling and mass production runs with joint venture partners for our projects, making component datasheets and test specifications, preparing samples, monitoring quality of shipments and performing failure analysis reports.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Certain amounts in the prior year condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The new standard will require companies to record most leased assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and also proposes a dual model for recognizing expense.
In January 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.
This guidance will be effective for the Company for the year ending December 31, 2019 and interim reporting periods within that year.
Early adoption is permitted for transactions that have not been reported in financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
In May 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions, or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
The primary impact of adoption relates to additional disclosures and presentation of revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and the timing of revenue recognition.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.
Mine Safety Disclosures.


