We maintain a majority-owned subsidiary in Mexico (since 1998) and two divisions in each of Taiwan (since 1997) and China (since 2005).
Our China location also serves as the engineering design support center responsible for arranging pre-production scheduling and mass production runs with joint venture partners for our projects, making component datasheets and test specifications, preparing samples, monitoring quality of shipments and performing failure analysis reports.
The unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all wholly owned divisions, including its 60% majority-owned subsidiary, Taitron Components Mexico, S.A. de C.V. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The new standard will require companies to record most leased assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and also proposes a dual model for recognizing expense.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions, or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
Revenue is recognized at the point at which control of the underlying products are transferred to the customer.The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, appearing in Item 1 of Part 1 of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
References to “Taitron,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Taitron Components Incorporated and its wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise specifically defines.
These estimates have a significant impact on our valuation and reserve accounts relating to the allowance for sales returns, doubtful accounts, inventory reserves and deferred income taxes.
Revenue Recognition – Revenue is recognized upon shipment of the products, which is when legal transfer of title occurs and control of the product is transferred to the customer.
Sales returns for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $0 and $2,000, respectively and for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $4,000 and $5,000, respectively.
Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.
We had inventory balances in the amount of $4,207,000 and $4,597,000 at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, which is presented net of valuation allowances of $7,319,000 and $7,189,000, respectively.
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we have classified inventory as a current asset in our September 30, 2019, condensed consolidated financial statements representing approximately 42% of current assets and 30% of total assets.
However, if all or a substantial portion of the inventory was required to be immediately liquidated, the inventory would not be as readily marketable or liquid as other items included or classified as a current asset, such as cash.Controls and Procedures.