We maintain a majority-owned subsidiary in Mexico (since 1998) and two divisions in each of Taiwan (since 1998) and China (since 2005).
Our Mexico location closed all operations in May 2013 (final closure is pending sale of our local 15,000 sq.
Our China location also serves as the engineering designs support center responsible for arranging pre-production scheduling and mass production runs with joint venture partners for our projects, making component datasheets and test specifications, preparing samples, monitoring quality of shipments and performing failure analysis reports.
The unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all wholly owned divisions, including its 60% majority-owned subsidiary, Taitron Components Mexico, S.A. de C.V. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Certain amounts in the prior year condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The new standard will require companies to record most leased assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and also proposes a dual model for recognizing expense.
We have evaluated the impact of adopting this guidance and we are preparing for the changes to be made to our consolidated financial statements.The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, appearing in Item 1 of Part 1of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
References to “Taitron,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Taitron Components Incorporated and its wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise specifically defines.
These estimates have a significant impact on our valuation and reserve accounts relating to the allowance for sales returns, doubtful accounts, inventory reserves and deferred income taxes.
Revenue Recognition – Revenue is recognized upon shipment of the products, which is when legal transfer of title occurs and control of the product is transferred to the customer.
The allowance for sales returns and doubtful accounts at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 aggregated $42,000 and $40,000, respectively.
Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.Controls and Procedures.