item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods ended on or before January 31, 2019 include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd. and its two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cables Unlimited, Inc. (“Cables Unlimited”) and Rel-Tech Electronics, Inc. (“Rel-Tech”). The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that RF Industries, Ltd. formed for the sole purpose of acquiring the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P. The acquisition of the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P. was completed on March 15, 2019. For all periods on or before January 31, 2019, references herein to the “Company” shall refer to RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, and Rel-Tech, and for all periods after January 31, 2019, references to the “Company” shall refer to RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises, collectively. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other, which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairments by eliminating step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc., its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors. In consideration for the C Enterprises business and assets, the Company paid $600,000 in cash and assumed certain liabilities. The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations. There were no intangible assets identified as part of the acquisition. 
Two vendors accounted for 11% and 10% of inventory purchases for the three months ended April 30, 2019. For the six months ended April 30, 2019, one of these vendors accounted for 14% of inventory purchases, and a different vendor accounted for 13% of inventory purchases. For the three months ended April 30, 2018, one vendor accounted for 51% of inventory purchases. This same vendor accounted for 45% of inventory purchases for the six months ended April 30, 2018. The Company has arrangements with these vendors to purchase products based on purchase orders periodically issued by the Company. 
On December 13, 2017, the Company granted 80,000 incentive stock options to an employee. These options vested 8,000 shares on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 8,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next nine anniversaries of December 13, 2017, and expire ten years from the date of grant. On December 3, 2018, the Company granted each of two employees 25,000 incentive stock options. These options vested 5,000 each on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 5,000 shares each per year thereafter on each of the next four anniversaries of December 3, 2018, and expire ten years from the date of grant. On December 3, 2018, the Company also granted one employee 10,000 incentive stock options. These options vested 2,000 shares on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 2,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next four anniversaries of December 3, 2018, and expire ten years from the date of grant. On March 8, 2019, the Company granted one employee 25,000 incentive stock options. These options vested 5,000 on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 5,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next four anniversaries of March 8, 2019, and expire ten years from the date of grant. No other options were granted to Company employees during the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018. 
Expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of the Company’s stock price and other factors. The Company used the historical method to calculate the expected life of the 2019 and 2018 option grants. The expected life represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury rate with a maturity date corresponding to the options’ expected life. The dividend yield is based upon the historical dividend yield. 
Non-employee directors receive a compensation package of $50,000 annually, which is paid one-half in cash and one-half through the grant of non-qualified stock options to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock. During the quarter ended January 31, 2019, the Company granted each of its five non-employee directors 7,203 non-qualified stock options. The options have an exercise price of $8.07 per share. The number of stock options granted to each director was determined by dividing $25,000 by the fair value of a stock option grant using the Black-Scholes model ($3.471 per share). These options vest ratably over fiscal year 2019 and expire five years from the date of grant. Effective November 1, 2018, in addition to the compensation received for serving on the Board of Directors, the Chairman of each committee of the Board will receive $15,000 per year in cash for services rendered as Chairman. During the quarter ended April 30, 2019, the Company did not grant any non-qualified stock options. 
Two customers, a distributor and an equipment manufacturer, accounted for approximately 32% and 10%, respectively, of the Company’s net sales for the six-month period ended April 30, 2019. These two customers’ accounts receivable balances accounted for 18% and 10% of the total net accounts receivable balance at April 30, 2019. For the three-month period ended April 30, 2019, the same distributor and a different equipment manufacturer accounted for approximately 28% and 14%, respectively, of the Company’s net sales. At April 30, 2019, this equipment manufacturer’s accounts receivable balance accounted for approximately 21% of the total net accounts receivable balance, with one other distributor customer’s accounts receivable balance accounting for approximately 15% of the total net accounts receivable balance. 
As of April 30, 2019, the RF Connector segment consisted of one division and the Custom Cabling segment was composed of three divisions. The four divisions that met the quantitative thresholds for segment reporting are the RF Connector and Cable Assembly division (“RF Connector division”), Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises. While each segment had similar products and services, with one major exception, there was little overlapping of these services to their customer base. In addition, sales or product and services for the RF Connector segment were primarily through the distribution channel while the Custom Cabling segment sales were through a combination of distribution and direct to the end customer. 
As reviewed by the Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Company evaluates the performance of each segment based on income or loss before income taxes. The Company charges depreciation and amortization directly to each division within the segment. Accounts receivable, inventory, property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets are the only assets identified by segment. Except as discussed above, the accounting policies for segment reporting are the same for the Company as a whole. 


item2.txt
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors. The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations. 
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment. Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate. If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value. 
We test our goodwill and trademarks and indefinite-lived assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate these assets may be impaired. These events or circumstances requires significant judgment and could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition and sale or disposition of all or a portion of a division. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. 
RF Industries, Ltd. (together with subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a national manufacturer and marketer of interconnect products and systems, including coaxial and specialty cables and connectors, fiber optic cables and connectors, and electrical and electronic specialty cables and components. Through its manufacturing and production facilities, the Company provides a wide selection of interconnect products and solutions primarily to telecommunications carriers and equipment manufacturers, wireless and network infrastructure carriers and manufacturers and to various original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in several market segments. 
For the six months ended April 30, 2019, most of the Company’s revenues were generated from the Custom Cabling segment from the sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies, and wiring harnesses (which accounted for 73% of the Company’s total sales for the six months ended April 30, 2019). Revenues from the RF Connector segment were generated from the sales of RF connector products and connector cable assemblies and accounted for 27% of the Company’s total sales for the six months ended April 30, 2019. 
During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018, the Company’s backlog increased significantly to $11 million as of October 31, 2018. Since the end of fiscal year 2018, the Company has filled most of the October 31, 2018 backlog. However, the Company has continued to receive additional bookings while maintaining its level of shipments. As a result, the Company had $10 million of backlog as of the current quarter ended April 30, 2019. Since purchase orders are submitted from customers based on the timing of their requirements, the Company’s ability to predict orders in future periods or trends in future periods is limited. Furthermore, purchase orders may be subject to cancellation from customers, although the Company has not historically experienced material cancellations of purchase orders. As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of April 30, 2019, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the balance of the current fiscal year. 
The Company does not anticipate needing material additional capital equipment in the next twelve months. In the past, the Company has financed some of its equipment and furnishings requirements through capital leases. No additional capital equipment purchases have been currently identified that would require significant additional leasing or capital expenditures during the next twelve months. Management also believes that based on the Company’s current financial condition, its current backlog of unfulfilled orders and its anticipated future operations, the Company would be able to finance its expansion, if necessary. 
On October 31, 2018, the Company sold all of the shares of Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc. (“Comnet”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that was part of the Company’s Custom Cabling segment. Accordingly, the Company’s results of operations for the both three and six month periods ended April 30, 2018 have been adjusted to remove the results of Comnet; the operating results of Comnet in 2018 are reported in the attached condensed consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations on the statement of operations. During the three months ended April 30, 2018, Comnet had net sales of $1.9 million and income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes of $0.1 million. During the six months ended April 30, 2018, Comnet had net sales of $4.2 million and income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes of $0.3 million. Comnet was sold as part of the Company’s business transformation toward a one company culture and operating structure to more efficiently leverage its capabilities across the entire business; Comnet’s business did not match the Company’s go-to-market strategy since it operated with a different sales model and margin profile than the rest of the Company. 
Net sales of $13.6 million decreased by 34%, or $6.9 million, for the three months ended April 30, 2019 (the “fiscal 2019 quarter”) when compared to the three months ended April 30, 2018 (the “fiscal 2018 quarter”). Net sales for the fiscal 2019 quarter at the Company’s Custom Cabling segment decreased by $7.5 million, or 42%, when compared to the fiscal 2018 quarter. The year-over-year decline in sales was primarily due to the largest series of orders the Company has ever received in the 2018 fiscal quarter, which orders significantly enhanced net sales in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. The net sales at the Company’s Custom Cabling segment in the fiscal 2019 second quarter were supplemented by $1.7 million of net sales that the Company generated from its newly acquired C Enterprises subsidiary. The Company did not own C Enterprises in the 2018 fiscal year. However, net sales at the Company’s Custom Cabling segment for the second quarter ended April 30, 2019 increased over the first quarter ended January 31, 2019. Even excluding the additional net sales generated by C Enterprises in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, net sales in the Company’s Custom Cabling segment increased by $0.7 million over the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Net sales for the fiscal 2019 quarter at the RF Connector segment increased by $0.6 million, or 22%, to $3.3 million as compared to $2.7 million for the fiscal 2018 quarter. 
Engineering expenses decreased $0.3 million during the fiscal 2019 quarter to $0.3 million compared to $0.6 million for the fiscal 2018 quarter due to higher compensation expense related to engineering activities in the fiscal 2018 quarter to support the higher net sales in the fiscal 2018 quarter. Engineering expenses represent costs incurred relating to the ongoing development of new products. 
For the fiscal 2019 quarter, income (loss) from continuing operations for the Custom Cabling segment and the RF Connector segment was $1.1 million and $0.3 million, respectively, as compared to $4.4 million and ($0.5) million for the comparable second quarter last year. The decrease in income from continuing operations at the Custom Cabling segment was primarily due to the higher sales in the fiscal 2018 quarter, while the RF Connector segment had an increase in income (loss) from continuing operations due in part to the increase in sales and an increase in gross margins. 
The provision for income taxes was 23% and 20% of income before income taxes for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in the effective income tax rate from period to period was primarily driven by the elimination of the benefit from the domestic production activities deduction and the one-time benefit recorded in the prior year related to the reduction in the Company’s deferred tax liability due to the change in the federal tax rate, both as a result of the Tax Act. 


item4.txt
Item 4. Controls and Procedures 
As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of the end of the period covered by this report, management, under the supervision and with the participation of our then Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date. 


part2.txt
Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
Item 3. Defaults upon Senior Securities 
In accordance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


