item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd. and its two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cables Unlimited, Inc. (“Cables Unlimited”) and Rel-Tech Electronics, Inc. (“Rel-Tech”). All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other, which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairments by eliminating step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
On December 13, 2017, the Company granted 80,000 incentive stock options to an employee. These options vested 8,000 shares on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 8,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next nine anniversaries of December 13, 2017, and expire ten years from the date of grant. On December 3, 2018, the Company granted each of two employees 25,000 incentive stock options. These options vested 5,000 each on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 5,000 shares each per year thereafter on each of the next four anniversaries of December 3, 2018, and expire five years from the date of grant. On December 3, 2018, the Company also granted one employee 10,000 incentive stock options. These options vested 2,000 shares on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 2,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next four anniversaries of December 3, 2018, and expire five years from the date of grant. No other options were granted to Company employees during the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018. 
Expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of the Company’s stock price and other factors. The Company used the historical method to calculate the expected life of the 2019 and 2018 option grants. The expected life represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury rate with a maturity date corresponding to the options’ expected life. The dividend yield is based upon the historical dividend yield. 
Non-employee directors receive a compensation package of $50,000 annually, which is paid one-half in cash and one-half through the grant of non-qualified stock options to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock. During the quarter ended January 31, 2019, the Company granted each of its five non-employee directors 6,600 non-qualified stock options. The number of stock options granted to each director was determined by dividing $25,000 by the fair value of a stock option grant using the Black-Scholes model ($3.471 per share). These options vest ratably over fiscal year 2019 and expire five years from the date of grant. Effective November 1, 2018, in addition to the compensation received for serving on the Board of Directors, the Chairman of each committee of the Board will receive $15,000 per year in cash for services rendered as Chairman. 
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents with high-credit quality financial institutions. At January 31, 2019, the Company had cash and cash equivalent balances in excess of federally insured limits in the amount of approximately $11.8 million. 
Two customers, a distributor and an equipment manufacturer, accounted for approximately 38% and 14%, respectively, of the Company’s net sales for the three-month period ended January 31, 2019. At January 31, 2019, these two customers’ accounts receivable balances accounted for approximately 30% and 22%, respectively, of the total net accounts receivable balance. For the three-month period ended January 31, 2018, one customer, a distributor, accounted for approximately 47% of the Company’s net sales. At January 31, 2018, this customer’s accounts receivable balance accounted for approximately 44% of the Company’s total net accounts receivable balance. Although these customers have been on-going major customers of the Company, the written agreements with these customers do not have any minimum purchase obligations and they could stop buying the Company’s products at any time and for any reason. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from these customers or the loss of these customers could significantly reduce the Company’s future revenues and profits. 
The RF Connector segment consisted of one division and the Custom Cabling segment was composed of two divisions. The three divisions that met the quantitative thresholds for segment reporting are the RF Connector and Cable Assembly division (“RF Connector division”), Cables Unlimited, and Rel-Tech. While each segment had similar products and services, with one major exception, there was little overlapping of these services to their customer base. In addition, sales or product and services for the RF Connector segment were primarily through the distribution channel while the Custom Cabling segment sales were through a combination of distribution and direct to the end customer. 
As reviewed by the Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Company evaluates the performance of each segment based on income or loss before income taxes. The Company charges depreciation and amortization directly to each division within the segment. Accounts receivable, inventory, property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets are the only assets identified by segment. Except as discussed above, the accounting policies for segment reporting are the same for the Company as a whole. 
The Company currently leases its corporate headquarters and RF connector and cable assembly manufacturing facilities in San Diego, California. On June 5, 2017, the Company entered into a fifth amendment to its lease for its facility in San Diego, California. As a result, the Company now leases a total of approximately 21,908 square feet of office, warehouse and manufacturing space at its San Diego location. The term of the lease expires on July 31, 2022, and the rental payments under the lease currently are $22,721 per month. The San Diego lease also requires the payment of the Company’s pro rata share of real estate taxes and insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses related to the facilities. 
   (iii) On November 1, 2018, the Cables Unlimited division entered into a lease agreement with 100 Bellport Avenue, LLC, as landlord, for approximately 7,500 square feet located in Yaphank, New York, with a monthly rent expense of $5,625. The lease expires on October 31, 2019. On February 1, 2019, Cables Unlimited entered into an amendment to this lease to expand the leased space by an additional 5,000 square feet and increasing the monthly rent expense by $3,750, resulting in a total rent expense of $9,375 per month. The lease’s expiration date remains at October 31, 2019.  


item2.txt
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment. Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate. If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value. 
We test our goodwill and trademarks and indefinite-lived assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate these assets may be impaired. These events or circumstances requires significant judgment and could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition and sale or disposition of all or a portion of a division. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. 
RF Industries, Ltd. (together with subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a national manufacturer and marketer of interconnect products and systems, including coaxial and specialty cables and connectors, fiber optic cables and connectors, and electrical and electronic specialty cables and components. Through its manufacturing and production facilities, the Company provides a wide selection of interconnect products and solutions primarily to telecommunications carriers and equipment manufacturers, wireless and network infrastructure carriers and manufacturers and to various original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in several market segments. 
For the three months ended January 31, 2019, most of the Company’s revenues were generated from the Custom Cabling segment from the sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies, and wiring harnesses (which accounted for 69% of the Company’s total sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019). Revenues from the RF Connector segment were generated from the sales of RF connector products and connector cable assemblies and accounted for 31% of the Company’s total sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019. 
During the year ended October 31, 2018 (“fiscal year 2018”), the Company received an influx of sales orders from customers that resulted in a sharp increase in sales and backlog from the prior fiscal year ended October 31, 2017. Since the end of fiscal year 2018, the Company has filled most of the October 31, 2018 backlog. However, the Company has maintained a consistent volume of bookings and shipments during the first quarter ended January 31, 2019, resulting in a substantially unchanged backlog of $11 million. Since purchase orders are submitted from customers based on the timing of their requirements, the Company’s ability to predict orders in future periods or trends in future periods is limited. Furthermore, purchase orders may be subject to cancellation from customers, although the Company has not historically experienced material cancellations of purchase orders. As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of January 31, 2019, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the balance of the current fiscal year. 
The Company used cash of $2.3 million during the three months ended January 31, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end. Net income of $0.6 million, with an added increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.1 million from depreciation and amortization and $0.1 million from stock-based compensation expense, was offset by an increase in accounts receivable ($1.4 million) and inventories ($1.1 million) as well as a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payout of prior year bonuses ($1.3 million) and an increase in accounts payable ($0.4 million). In addition, during the three months ended January 31, 2019, the Company received $0.3 million from the exercise of stock options and paid out $0.2 million in dividends. 
The Company does not anticipate needing material additional capital equipment in the next twelve months. In the past, the Company has financed some of its equipment and furnishings requirements through capital leases. No additional capital equipment purchases have been currently identified that would require significant additional leasing or capital expenditures during the next twelve months. Management also believes that based on the Company’s current financial condition, its current backlog of unfulfilled orders and its anticipated future operations, the Company would be able to finance its expansion, if necessary. 
On October 31, 2018, the Company sold all of the shares of Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc (“Comnet”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that was part of the Company’s Custom Cabling segment. Accordingly, the Company’s results of operations for the three months ended January 31, 2018 have been adjusted to remove the results of Comnet; the operating results of Comnet in 2018 are reported in the attached condensed consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations on the statement of operations. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, Comnet had net sales and income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income taxes of $2.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively. The sale of Comnet was consistent with the Company’s business transformation toward a one company culture and operating structure to more efficiently leverage its capabilities across the entire business; Comnet Telecom’s business did not match the Company’s go-to-market strategy since it operated with a different sales model and margin profile than the rest of the Company. 
Net sales of $10.6 million increased by 34%, or $2.7 million, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 (the “fiscal 2019 quarter”) when compared to the three months ended January 31, 2018 (the “fiscal 2018 quarter”). Net sales for the fiscal 2019 quarter at the Company’s Custom Cabling segment increased by $2.1 million, or 38%, when compared to the fiscal 2018 quarter as a result of increased sales of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies and wiring harnesses. The Custom Cabling segment saw an increase in new sales due, in large part, to project work in the OEM and wireless carrier markets in addition to an increase in traditional run rate business. Net sales for the fiscal 2019 quarter at the RF Connector segment increased by $0.6 million, or 24%, to $3.3 million as compared to $2.6 million for the fiscal 2018 quarter. 
Selling and general expenses increased $0.2 million to $2.0 million compared to $1.8 million in the first quarter last year due to higher compensation expenses as a result of increased sales at the Custom Cabling segment. Despite this increase in expenses, selling and general expenses as a percentage of sales declined to 19% of sales compared to 22% of sales in the first quarter last year, reflecting the Company’s focus on increased operational efficiencies. 


item4.txt
As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of the end of the period covered by this report, management, under the supervision and with the participation of our then Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date. 
 Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures  
In accordance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


part2.txt
 Item 3.Defaults upon Senior Securities  
 Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures  
In accordance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


