item1.txt
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other, which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairments by eliminating step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
During March 2016, the Company announced the shutdown of its Bioconnect division, which comprised the entire operations of the Medical Cabling and Interconnect segment. The closure is part of the Company’s ongoing plan to close or dispose of underperforming divisions that are not part of the Company’s core operations. For the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $10,000 of income from sale of equipment for the Bioconnect division, which has been included within discontinued operations. 
One vendor accounted for 46% of inventory purchases for the three months ended April 30, 2018. This same vendor accounted for 38% of inventory purchases for the six months ended April 30, 2018. One vendor accounted for 14% of inventory purchases for the three months ended April 30, 2017. No vendor accounted for greater than 10% of inventory purchases for the six months ended April 30, 2017. The Company has arrangements with these vendors to purchase products based on purchase orders periodically issued by the Company. 
The contingent consideration liability represents future earn-out liability that we may be required to pay in conjunction with the acquisition of Rel-Tech and Comnet. The Company estimates the fair value of the earn-out liability using a probability-weighted scenario of estimated qualifying earn-out gross profit related to Rel-Tech and EBITDA related to Comnet calculated at net present value (level 3 of the fair value hierarchy). 
The Company’s current stock incentive plan provides for the granting of qualified and nonqualified options to the Company’s officers, directors and employees. The Company satisfies the exercise of options by issuing previously unissued common shares. On December 13, 2017, the Company granted 80,000 incentive stock options to an employee. These options vest 8,000 shares on the date of grant and 8,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next nine anniversaries of December 13, 2017 and expire ten years from date of grant. No other options were granted to Company employees during the three and six months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017. 
Expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of the Company’s stock price and other factors. The Company used the historical method to calculate the expected life of the 2018 and 2017 option grants. The expected life represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury rate with a maturity date corresponding to the options’ expected life. The dividend yield is based upon the historical dividend yield. 
During the six months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, stock-based compensation expense totaled $132,000 and $99,000, respectively. During the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, stock-based compensation expense totaled $57,000 and $48,000, respectively. For the six months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, stock-based compensation classified in cost of sales amounted to $0 and $6,000, respectively, and stock-based compensation classified in selling and general expense amounted to $132,000 and $93,000, respectively. 
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents with high-credit quality financial institutions. At April 30, 2018, the Company had cash and cash equivalent balances in excess of federally insured limits in the amount of approximately $7.5 million. 
The RF Connector and Cable Assembly segment consisted of one division and the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment was composed of three divisions. The four divisions that met the quantitative thresholds for segment reporting are Connector and Cable Assembly, Cables Unlimited, Comnet and Rel-Tech. The specific customers are different for each division; however, there is some overlapping of product sales to them. The methods used to distribute products are similar within each division aggregated.  
As reviewed by the Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Company evaluates the performance of each segment based on income or loss before income taxes. The Company charges depreciation and amortization directly to each division within the segment. Accounts receivable, inventory, property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets are the only assets identified by segment. Except as discussed above, the accounting policies for segment reporting are the same for the Company as a whole. 
The Company currently leases its corporate headquarters and RF connector and cable assembly manufacturing facilities in San Diego, California. On June 5, 2017, the Company entered into a fifth amendment to its lease for its facility in San Diego, California. As a result, the Company now leases a total of approximately 21,908 square feet of office, warehouse and manufacturing space at its San Diego location. The term of the lease expires on July 31, 2022, and the rental payments under the lease currently are $22,721 per month. The San Diego lease also requires the payment of the Company’s pro rata share of real estate taxes and insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses related to the facilities. 


item2.txt
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment. Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate. If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value. 
We test our goodwill and trademarks and indefinite-lived assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate these assets may be impaired. These events or circumstances requires significant judgment and could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition and sale or disposition of all or a portion of a division. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. 
The purchase agreement for the Rel-Tech acquisition provides for earn-out payments of up to $800,000, payable through May 31, 2018. The fair value of the obligation under the earn-out purchase price arrangement for Rel-Tech was $220,000 as of April 30, 2018. The initial earn-out liability was valued at its fair value using the Monte Carlo simulation and is included as a component of the total purchase price. The earn-out was and will continue to be revalued quarterly using a present value approach, and any resulting increase or decrease will be recorded into selling and general expenses. Any changes in the assumed timing and amount of the probability of payment scenarios could impact the fair value. Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the earn-out as of the acquisition date. Accordingly, significant variances between actual and forecasted results or changes in the assumptions can materially impact the amount of contingent consideration expense we record in future periods. 
If a deduction reported on a tax return for an equity-based incentive award exceeds the cumulative compensation cost for those instruments recognized for financial reporting purposes, any resulting realized tax benefit that exceeds the previously calculated deferred tax asset for those instruments is considered an excess tax benefit, and is recognized as additional paid-in capital. If the tax deduction is less than the cumulative book compensation cost, the tax effect of the resulting difference is charged first to additional paid-in capital, to the extent of the available pool of windfall tax benefits, with any remainder recognized in income tax expense. 
RF Industries, Ltd. (together with subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a national manufacturer and marketer of interconnect products and systems, including coaxial and specialty cables and connectors, fiber optic cables and connectors, and electrical and electronic specialty cables and components. Through its four manufacturing and production facilities, the Company provides a wide selection of interconnect products and solutions primarily to telecommunications carriers and equipment manufacturers, wireless and network infrastructure carriers and manufacturers, Data Center and Co-location companies, and to various original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in several market segments. 
The Company generated cash of $2.5 million during the six months ended April 30, 2018 due largely to the impact of increased sales, which resulted in net income of $3.7 million. An increase in accounts receivable ($7.9 million) and inventories ($1.0 million) were partially offset by increased accounts payable ($4.6 million), accrued expenses ($1.7 million) and income taxes ($0.5 million). This net decrease in cash was partially offset by an increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.5 million primarily from depreciation and amortization related to the acquisitions of Comnet, Rel-Tech and CompPro, and $0.1 million of stock-based compensation expense. In addition, during the quarter the Company received $0.4 million from the exercise of stock options and paid out $0.4 million in dividends. 
The Company does not anticipate needing material additional capital equipment in the next twelve months. In the past, the Company has financed some of its equipment and furnishings requirements through capital leases. No additional capital equipment purchases have been currently identified that would require significant additional leasing or capital expenditures during the next twelve months. Management also believes that based on the Company’s current financial condition, its current backlog of unfulfilled orders and its anticipated future operations, the Company would be able to finance its expansion, if necessary. 
Net sales of $22.4 million increased by 195%, or $14.8 million, for the three months ended April 30, 2018 (the “fiscal 2018 quarter”) when compared to the three months ended April 30, 2017 (the “fiscal 2017 quarter”). Net sales for the fiscal 2018 quarter at the Company’s Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment (Custom Cabling) increased by $14.6 million, or 292%, when compared to the fiscal 2017 quarter as a result of increased sales of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies and wiring harnesses. The Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment saw an increase in new sales due, in large part, to project work in the OEM and wireless carrier markets in addition to an increase in traditional run rate business. Net sales for the fiscal 2018 quarter at the RF Connector and Cable Assembly segment (RF Connector) increased by $0.1 million, or 4%, to $2.7 million as compared to $2.6 million for the fiscal 2017 quarter. 
Selling and general expenses increased $1.7 million to $3.4 million compared to $1.7 million in the second quarter last year due to higher compensation related to the sales gains at Custom Cabling. Despite this increase in expenses, selling and general expenses as a percentage of sales declined to 15% of sales compared to 22% of sales in the second quarter last year indicating the Company’s increased operational efficiencies. 
For the fiscal 2018 quarter, income (loss) from continuing operations for the Custom Cabling segment and the RF Connector segment was $4.3 million and $(0.3) million, respectively, as compared to none and $0.1 million for the comparable second quarter last year. The increase in income from continuing operations at the Custom Cabling segment was primarily due to the increase in sales while the decrease at the RF Connector segment was primarily due to corporate overhead allocations related to accrued bonuses as a result of the increased profitability of the Company overall. 
Net sales of $32.7 million increased by 129%, or $18.4 million, for the six months ended April 30, 2018 (the “fiscal 2018 six month period”) when compared to the six months ended April 30, 2017 (the “fiscal 2017 six month period”). Net sales for the fiscal 2018 six month period at the Company’s Custom Cabling increased $18.3 million, or 201%, when compared to the fiscal 2017 six month period due to increased sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies and wiring harnesses and other products. Net sales for the fiscal 2018 six month period at the RF Connector and Cable Assembly segment increased by $0.3 million, or 6%, to $5.4 million as compared to $5.1 million for the fiscal 2017 six month period. 
Selling and general expenses increased by $1.9 million during the fiscal 2018 six month period to $5.6 million from $3.7 million in the 2017 fiscal period. The increase in selling and general expenses was primarily due to increased compensation resulting from the increase in net sales. Selling and general as a percentage of sales declined to 17% for the fiscal 2018 six month period as compared to 26% for the fiscal 2017 six month period indicating the Company’s increased operational efficiencies. 


item4.txt
Item 4. Controls and Procedures 
As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of the end of the period covered by this report, management, under the supervision and with the participation of our then Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date. 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 


part2.txt
Item 3. Defaults upon Senior Securities 
In accordance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


