Item 4.
Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Our management evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018 based on the framework in “Internal Control – Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in 2013.
Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2018.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the three months ended December 31, 2018 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.
Table of Contents  

Part II.
Other Information 

Item 1.
Legal Proceedings 

See Note 10.
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.
“Financial Statements.” for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved.
Item 1A.
Risk factors 

We are affected by risks specific to us as well as factors that affect all businesses operating in a global market.
The significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018, under the heading “Part I – Item 1A.
Risk Factors.” There have been no material changes to those risk factors.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

On November 7, 2005, our Board of Directors adopted a share repurchase plan which allows for the repurchase of up to 300,000 of our common shares, of which 162,486 have been purchased to date.
This plan will continue until the maximum is reached or the plan is terminated by further action of the Board of Directors.
We have made no repurchases of our common stock in the current or any of the last three fiscal years.
Table of Contents  

Item 6.
Exhibits 



Table of Contents  

Signatures 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
