Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



Forward Looking Statements 



This report contains information that may constitute "forward-looking statements.” Generally, the words "believe," "will," “estimate,” "expect," "project," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. All statements that address operating performance, events, or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future — including statements relating to revenues growth and statements expressing general views about future operating results — are forward-looking statements. Management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made. However, caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because such statements speak only as of the date when made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. In addition, forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those described in Part II, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018, and those described from time to time in our subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 



General Discussion 



We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services, which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements. We prefer markets in which we can establish a strong presence and achieve high gross margins. We are organized into four divisions across eight physical locations. Our sterilization and disinfection control division (“SDC” Division) manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators. Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries. The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry. Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries. Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and other laboratory and industrial environments. Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products. 



Our revenues come from three main sources – hardware, consumables, and services. Product sales (hardware and consumables) are dependent on several factors, including general economic conditions, both domestic and international, customer capital spending trends, competition, introduction of new products and acquisitions. Sterilization and disinfection control products and most products in our Cold Chain Packaging Division are disposable and are used on a routine basis, thus product sales are less sensitive to general economic conditions. Instrument products and cold chain monitoring products and systems have a longer life, and their purchase by our customers is somewhat discretionary, so sales are more sensitive to general economic conditions. Service demand is driven by our customers’ quality control and regulatory environments, which require periodic repair and recalibration or certification of our instrument products and cold chain monitoring systems. We typically evaluate costs and pricing annually. Our policy is to price our products competitively and, where possible, we pass along cost increases in order to maintain our margins.  



Gross profit is affected by our product mix, manufacturing efficiencies, and price competition. Historically, as we have integrated our acquisitions and taken advantage of manufacturing efficiencies, our gross margin percentages for some products have improved. There are, however, differences in gross margin percentages between product lines, and ultimately the mix of sales will continue to impact our overall gross margin. 



Selling expense is driven primarily by labor costs, including salaries and commissions. Accordingly, it may vary with sales levels. Labor costs, including non-cash stock-based compensation, and amortization of intangible assets drive the substantial majority of general and administrative expense. Research and development expense is predominantly comprised of labor costs and third-party consultants. 



General Trends  



Our strategic objectives include growth both organically and through further acquisitions. During the three months ended June 30, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations). 





Table of Contents  



The markets for sterilization and disinfection control products remain strong, as the disposable nature of these products makes them less sensitive to general economic conditions. The worldwide market for sterilization and disinfection control products is growing as more countries focus on verifying the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes. 





We are working on several research and development projects that, if completed, may result in new products for both existing customers and new markets. We are hopeful that we will have new products available for sale in the coming year. 



Overall revenues increased 11 percent, while organic revenues increased four percent, for the three months ended June 30, 2018, resulting from organic increases of 90 percent, 10 percent, and one percent from the Cold Chain Packaging, Cold Chain Monitoring, and Instruments Divisions, respectively, partially offset by an organic decrease of four percent for the SDC Division. 



Results of Operations 









Revenues 







Three months ended June 30, 2018 versus June 30, 2017 







Table of Contents  



Instruments revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased one percent, primarily due to the timing of orders and modest price increases. 



Cold Chain Monitoring revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 10 percent primarily due to organic growth of 10 percent. Revenues in this division fluctuate quarter over quarter due to the timing of customer acceptance of certain installations and the nature and timing of orders within any given quarter. 



Cold Chain Packaging revenues increased by 90 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increased order rate with the division’s largest customer. 



Gross Profit  







Three months ended June 30, 2018 versus June 30, 2017 



Sterilization and Disinfection Control gross profit margin percentage increased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 relative to the three months ended June 30, 2017 primarily as a result of a $291 expense in the prior year related to moving costs for the Bozeman facility. Excluding the impact of the moving costs in the three months ended June 30, 2017, gross margin percentage was essentially flat as compared to the prior year. 



Instruments gross margin percentage increased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to mix between the component products, and product and service mix, as well as due to a $163 increase in inventory reserve in the three months ended June 30, 2017 as a result of the decision to discontinue for sale certain instruments products. 



Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to efficiency gains. Additionally, in the three months ended June 30, 2017, we recorded an inventory reserve charge of $216. 



Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin decreased primarily as a result of increased revenues from a large customer contract with higher than normal discount rates. We expect that our Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin percentage will continue to be substantially lower than the historical results of our other segments due to the nature of these products. 





Table of Contents  



Operating Expenses 





Selling 



Three months ended June 30, 2018 versus June 30, 2017 



Selling expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 29 percent primarily due to timing in the reduction and replacement of selling personnel. Selling expense was eight percent of revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to 12 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2017. We plan to strategically reinvest in sales and marketing resources to further increase organic revenues growth. 



General and Administrative 



Three months ended June 30, 2018 versus June 30, 2017 



General and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $743. Increases in non-cash stock-based compensation expense and amortization expense comprise $477 of the total, and one-time recruiting fees accounted for an additional $112 of the increase. The remaining increase is composed of both recurring and non-recurring charges that are individually immaterial. 



Research and Development 



Three months ended June 30, 2018 versus June 30, 2017 



Research and development expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 27 percent due to streamlining the necessary engineers and materials and supplies required to support existing businesses. We plan to make incremental investments in this area to further our development plans. 



Other Expense 



Other expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 is composed primarily of interest expense associated with our Credit Facility. 



Net Income 



Our income tax rate varies based upon many factors but in general, we anticipate that on a go-forward basis, our effective tax rate will be approximately 26 percent, plus or minus the impact of excess tax benefits and deficiencies associated with share-based payment awards to employees (please see Note 7. “Income Taxes” within Item 1. Financial Statements for additional discussion). The excess tax benefits and deficiencies associated with share-based payment awards to our employees have caused and, in the future, may cause large fluctuations in our realized effective tax rate based on timing, volume, and nature of stock options exercised under our share-based payment program. Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2018 varied with the changes in revenues, gross profit, and operating expenses (which includes $1,860 of non-cash amortization of intangible assets). 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Our sources of liquidity include cash generated from operations, working capital, capacity under our Credit Facility, and potential equity and debt offerings. We believe that cash generated from these sources will be sufficient to meet our short-term and long-term needs. Our more significant uses of resources have historically included long-term capital equipment expenditures, payment of debt obligations, quarterly dividends to shareholders, and acquisitions. Working capital is the amount by which current assets exceed current liabilities. We had working capital of $17,193 and $14,698 at June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively.  



Given our cash flow projections and unused capacity on our line of credit that is available until March 1, 2022, our liquidity is strong and is expected to meet our ongoing cash and debt service requirements for our general business needs. Interest-bearing debt of $39,750 and $46,625 was outstanding at June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively. The Term Loan requires 20 quarterly principal payments, which began on March 31, 2017, in the amount of $250,000 (increasing by $125,000 each year up to $750,000 in the fifth year). The remaining balance of principal and accrued interest are due on March 1, 2022. We were in compliance with all loan agreements at June 30, 2018 and for all prior years presented, and have met all debt payment obligations. 



We completed the previously-announced move of our Omaha, Traverse City, and old Bozeman manufacturing facilities to our new facility in Bozeman, Montana. We are currently holding our old Bozeman facility for sale, and we expect to be able to sell that building for approximately $2,300 (less broker commissions). 



We routinely evaluate opportunities for strategic acquisitions. Future material acquisitions may require that we obtain additional capital, assume third party debt or incur other long-term obligations. We believe that we have the option to utilize both equity and debt instruments as vehicles for the long-term financing of our investment activities and acquisitions. At June 30, 2018, we had $58,500 on unused capacity under our credit facility, subject to covenant restrictions. In addition, in June 2018, the SEC declared effective our Universal Shelf Registration Statement which allows us to sell, in one or more public offerings, common stock or warrants, or any combination of such securities for proceeds in an aggregate amount of up to $300,000. The terms of any offering, including the type of securities involved, would be established at the time of sale. 





Table of Contents  



Dividends 



We have paid regular quarterly dividends since 2003. We declared and paid dividends of $0.16 per share for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as well as each quarter for the year ending March 31, 2018.  



In July 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock, payable on September 17, 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2018. 



Cash Flows 







At June 30, 2018, we had contractual obligations for open purchase orders of approximately $3,194 for routine purchases of supplies and inventory, which are payable in less than one year. 



Critical Accounting Estimates 



Critical accounting estimates are those that we believe are both significant and require us to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often because we need to estimate the effect of inherently uncertain matters. These estimates are based on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be appropriate under the circumstance. Actual amounts and results could differ from these estimates made by management. Certain accounting policies that require significant management estimates and are deemed critical to our results of operations or financial position are discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018 in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



On November 7, 2005, our Board of Directors adopted a share repurchase plan which allows for the repurchase of up to 300,000 of our common shares, of which 162,486 have been purchased to date. This plan will continue until the maximum is reached or the plan is terminated by further action of the Board of Directors. We have made no repurchases of our common stock in any of the last three fiscal years. 



Item 6. Exhibits 







α Mesa Laboratories, Inc. has entered into an Executive Employment Agreement with each of Gary M. Owens and John V. Sakys. 





Table of Contents  



Signatures 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 



MESA LABORATORIES, INC. 







