Item 1.
Financial Statements
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive (Loss) Income
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
– Contingent consideration is classified as a financing activity pursuant to ASU 2016-15.
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1.
Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Description of Business
In this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, Mesa Laboratories, Inc., a Colorado corporation, together with its subsidiaries is collectively referred to as “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa.”
We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements.
We prefer markets in which we can establish a strong presence and achieve high gross margins.
We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators.
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the opinion of management, such unaudited information includes all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations.
The results of operations for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results that may be achieved for the entire year.
The financial statements and related notes do not include all information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for annual reports.
This quarterly report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018.
Fair Value Measurements
As of December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, our financial instruments were categorized as Level 1 (inputs are quoted prices in active markets) and include cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and short-term and long-term debt.
With the exception of long-term debt, the carrying value of these financial instruments is considered to be representative of their fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
Our debt has a variable interest rate, so the carrying amount approximates fair value because interest rates on these instruments approximate the interest rate on debt with similar terms available to us.
Acquisitions
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we completed the purchase of Point Six Wireless, LLC.
We made an initial allocation of the purchase price at the date of acquisition based on our understanding of the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities.
We obtained the information to make the allocation during due diligence and through the use of other information available to us.
In the months after closing, we will obtain additional information about the assets and liabilities acquired, including asset appraisals, and we will refine the estimates of the fair value to more accurately allocate the purchase price.
Table of Contents
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).
The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to present financial statement users with the ability to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We have initiated our plan for the adoption and implementation of this new accounting standard, including assessing our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients, and making necessary changes to our accounting policies, processes, and internal controls over financial reporting.
We expect to adopt the standard using the optional transition method, which will allow us to apply the standard as of the effective date, therefore we will not apply changes to comparative periods presented in our financial statements.
We are still assessing the expected impact of the standard on our consolidated balance sheets, but it will not significantly impact our consolidated statements of operations and cash flows.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Release No.
33-10532 that amends and clarifies certain financial reporting requirements.
The principal change to our financial reporting is the inclusion of the annual disclosure requirement of changes in stockholders’ equity in Rule 3-04 of Regulation S-X to interim periods.
We adopted this new rule beginning the quarter ended December 31, 2018 and have included our Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity with this quarterly filing on Form 10-Q.
Effective April 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all related amendments (referred to collectively hereinafter as “ASU 606”) to all contracts on a modified retrospective basis.
ASU 606 requires an entity to recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount it expects to be entitled to receive for the goods and services.
The adoption did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of operations, or cash flows.
The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2.
“Revenue Recognition.”
In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05, Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118.
We adopted the ASU immediately upon release.
The amendments in the update provide guidance on when to record and disclose provisional amounts for certain income tax effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA").
The amendments also require any provisional amounts or subsequent adjustments to be included in net income from continuing operations.
Additionally, this ASU discusses required disclosures that an entity must make with regard to the TCJA.
As of the three months ended December 31, 2018, we have completed our analysis of the TCJA’s income tax effects.
the Refer to Note 8.
“Income Taxes” for additional information on the TCJA.
The TCJA created a new requirement that global intangible low taxed income earned by controlled foreign corporations (“CFCs”) must be included currently in the gross income of the CFC’s U.S. shareholder.
Under U.S. GAAP, we are allowed to make an accounting policy choice of how GILTI taxes are treated.
We have elected to treat taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI as current period expenses when incurred (“the period cost method”).
Note 2.
Revenue Recognition
Table of Contents
Our performance obligations related to the sale of instruments and consumables generally consist of the promise to sell tangible goods to distributors or end users.
Ownership of these goods is typically transferred at time of shipment, at which point we have satisfied our performance obligation and we recognize revenue.
Table of Contents
Contract Balances
Our contracts have varying payment terms and conditions.
Some customers prepay for services, resulting in unearned revenues or customer deposits, called contract liabilities, which are included within other accrued expenses and unearned revenues in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Contract assets would exist when sales are recorded (i.e.
the control of the goods or services has been transferred to the customer), but customer payment is contingent on a future event besides the passage of time (such as satisfaction of additional performance obligations).
We do not have any contract assets.
Unbilled receivables, which are not classified as contract assets, represent arrangements in which sales have been recorded prior to billing and right to payment is unconditional.
Note 3.
Impairment Loss on Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we performed an impairment analysis on our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment as the segment’s financial results continued to fall short of expectations.
Specifically, rising commodity costs used in the segment’s principal product have increased over the past nine months, eroding the gross profit margin of the segment.
We determined that the long-lived assets and goodwill associated with our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment were impaired and we recognized non-cash impairment charge of $1,028 on goodwill and $2,641 on long-lived assets, in impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations.
The remaining goodwill and intangible assets associated with this segment are $300 and $809, respectively as of December 31, 2018.
The fair value of the impaired assets was determined using Level 3 inputs (unobservable inputs) based on a discounted cash flow method.
Table of Contents
Note 5.
Facility Relocation
In August 2016, we announced that we planned to shut down both our Omaha and Traverse City manufacturing facilities and relocate those operations to the new Bozeman building.
The move of those two facilities, along with the current Bozeman operations, began in March 2017 and was completed as of June 30, 2018.
The total cost of the relocation was $1,584 (which is comprised primarily of facility moving expenses, retention bonuses for existing personnel and payroll costs for duplicative personnel during the transition period) and these costs pertain to the Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division.
We completed the sale of our old Bozeman facility during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, for $2,222 (net of commissions) resulting in a gain of $288, which is recorded in other (income) expense, net on our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Note 6.
Long-Term Debt
On March 1, 2017, we entered into a five-year agreement (the “Credit Facility”) for an $80,000 revolving line of credit (“Line of Credit”), a $20,000 term loan (“Term Loan”) and up to $2,500 of letters of credit with a banking syndicate of four banks.
In addition, the Credit Facility provides a post-closing accordion feature which allows for the Company to request to increase the Line of Credit or Term Loan up to an additional $100,000.
Table of Contents
The Credit Facility is secured by all of our assets and requires us to maintain a ratio of funded debt to our trailing four quarters of EBIDTA (the “Leverage Ratio”), as defined in the agreement, of less than 3.0 to 1.0, provided that, we may once during the term of the Credit Facility, in connection with a Permitted Acquisition for which the aggregate consideration paid or to be paid in respect thereof equals or exceeds $20,000, elect to increase the maximum Leverage Ratio permitted hereunder to (i) 3.50 to 1.00 for a period of four consecutive fiscal quarters commencing with the fiscal quarter in which such Permitted Acquisition occurs (the “Initial Holiday Period”) and (ii) 3.25 to 1.00 for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters immediately following the Initial Holiday Period.
The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of less than 1.25 to 1.0.
We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2018.
Subsequent to December 2018, we made a $3,000 payment under our line of credit.
Note 7.
Stock-Based Compensation
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we granted restricted stock units (“RSUs”) on 17,458 shares of our common stock to eligible employees.
The weighted average grant date fair value of the RSUs was $154.91 per share.
The RSUs generally vest in equal installments on the anniversary of the grant date over a period of five years.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, 2,000 RSUs vested, and 1,445 RSUs were forfeited or cancelled.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we awarded 11,385 performance share units (“PSUs”) that are subject to both service and performance conditions to eligible employees.
The PSUs had a grant date fair value of $192.99 per share and vest both based on our achievement of specific performance criteria for the three-year period from April 1, 2018 through March 31, 2021, as well as continued service through June 15, 2021.
The quantity of shares that will be issued upon vesting will range from 0 percent to 400 percent of the targeted number of shares; if the defined minimum targets are not met, then no shares will vest.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, 1,050 PSUs were forfeited.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we granted non-qualified stock options (“NQSOs”) on 25,544 shares of common stock to eligible employees.
The weighted-average grant date fair value of the NQSOs was $53.93 per share with a weighted average exercise price of $144.65 per share based on the closing price of the common stock on the date of grant.
The NQSOs generally vest in equal installments on the anniversary of the grant date over a period of five years.
Stock-based compensation expense is included in cost of revenues, selling, general and administrative, and research and development expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Table of Contents
We issue shares in connection with stock-based compensation pursuant to the Mesa Laboratories, Inc. 2014 Equity Plan (the “2014 Equity Plan”).
For the purposes of counting the shares remaining as available under the 2014 Incentive Plan, each share issuable pursuant to outstanding full value awards, such as RSUs and PSUs, counts as five shares issued, whereas each share underlying a stock option counts as one share issued.
Under the 2014 Equity Plan, 1,100,000 shares of common stock have been authorized and reserved for eligible participants, of which 611,504 shares were available for future grants as of December 31, 2018.
Note 8.
Income Taxes
For interim income tax reporting, we estimate our annual effective tax rate and apply this effective tax rate to our year-to-date pre-tax income.
Each quarter, our estimate of the annual effective tax rate is updated, and if the estimated effective tax rate changes, a cumulative adjustment is made.
Additionally, the tax effects of significant unusual or infrequently occurring items are recognized as discrete items in the interim period in which the events occur.
The impact of changes in tax laws or rates on deferred tax amounts, impairments of non-deductible goodwill, excess benefits from stock-based compensation, and changes in tax reserves resulting from the finalization of tax audits or reviews are examples of significant unusual or infrequently occurring items that are recognized as discrete items in the interim period in which the event occurs.
There is a potential for volatility of the effective tax rate due to several factors, including changes in the mix of the pre-tax income and the jurisdictions to which it relates, changes in tax laws and foreign tax holidays, settlement with taxing authorities, and foreign currency fluctuations.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") was enacted in the U.S., making significant changes to U.S. tax law.
The TCJA reduces the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 34 percent to 21 percent, requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain un-remitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, generally eliminates U.S. federal income tax on dividends from foreign subsidiaries, creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings, repeals the Section 199 deduction, and imposes limitations on executive compensation under Section 162(m).
We have completed our analysis of the TCJA’s income tax effects.
In total, the TCJA resulted in a net tax expense of $43.
The final effect of the TCJA’s one-time transition tax was a tax liability of $322.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we re-measured the applicable deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse.
The amount recorded related to the re-measurement of our deferred tax balance was a benefit of $279.
Our effective income tax rate was 9.5 percent and (5.3) percent for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively; and 8.6 percent and (18.0) percent for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 differed from the statutory federal rate of 21 percent primarily due to the impact of the state income taxes, share-based payment awards for employees, and the foreign rate differential.
Since we are subject to audit by various taxing authorities, it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change during the next 12 months.
However, we do not expect the change, if any, to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations within the next 12 months.
Table of Contents
Note 9.
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period.
Diluted earnings per share (“diluted EPS”) is computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that it includes the potential dilution that could occur if dilutive securities were exercised.
Potentially dilutive securities include common shares related to stock options and non-vested stock awards (collectively “stock awards”).
Stock awards are excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS in the event that they are subject to performance conditions or are antidilutive.
Note 10.
Commitments and Contingencies
In February 2018, Dr. James L. Orrington II filed a purported civil class action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, alleging that we sent unsolicited advertisements to telephone facsimile machines.
The complaint includes counts alleging violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (“TCPA”), the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act, Conversion, Nuisance, and Trespass to Chattels.
The plaintiff seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees.
Additionally, in June 2018, Rowan Family Dentistry, Inc. filed a purported class action complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado making substantially the same claims as Dr. James L. Orrington II and seeking substantially the same relief.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded an expense of $3,300 as an estimate of our potential loss associated with the matter.
The expense is recorded as estimated legal settlement on our condensed consolidated statements of operations and a corresponding liability is included as estimated legal liability on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In January 2019, we received preliminary court approval of a class action settlement with Dr. James L. Orrington II in the amount of $3,300.
We will continue to vigorously defend the aforementioned cases and while we believe that the liability recorded as of December 31, 2018 approximates the amount that we will ultimately pay, it is possible that we will be subject to liabilities greater or less than the current amount accrued.
Table of Contents
Note 11.
Segment Information
Table of Contents
Intersegment revenues are not significant and are eliminated to arrive at consolidated totals.
Reconciling items include selling, general and administrative, research and development, impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets, estimated legal settlement, and other expenses
As of December 31, 2018, all long-lived assets are located in the United States except for $5,952, $2,471 and $15,130 which are associated with our French, Canadian, and German subsidiaries, respectively.
No foreign country exceeds 10 percent of total revenues.
Note 12.
Subsequent Event
In January 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock, payable on March 15, 2019, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 28, 2019.
Table of Contents
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
See Note 10.
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.
“Financial Statements.” for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved.
Item 1A.
Risk factors
We are affected by risks specific to us as well as factors that affect all businesses operating in a global market.
The significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018, under the heading “Part I – Item 1A.
Risk Factors.” There have been no material changes to those risk factors.
