fls.txt
The discussion of the financial condition and results of operations of the Company set forth below should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form10-Q.


item1.txt



item2.txt
The statements contained in this Form10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27a of the Securities Act and Section 21e of the Exchange Act.
We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services and other related matters.
Therefore, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in our company to review the information we post to all of our channels, including our social media accounts.
Issuer Direct's principal platform, Platform id.™, empowers users by thoughtfully integrating the most relevant tools, technologies and products, thus eliminating the complexity associated with producing and distributing their business communications and financial information.
We work with a diverse customer base, which not only includes corporate issuers, but also professional firms, such as investor relations and public relations firms, and the accounting and the legal communities.
Our ACCESSWIRE® news business offering represented a majority of the year over year growth in our Platform and Technology revenue during 2017 and continues to lead our transition to a full platform solution.
Also contributing to the growth in the percentage of Platform and Technology revenue is our focus on our platform first engagement strategy and converting customers which historically relied on us for services work to utilizing Platform id.
As part of our Platform and Technology strategy, we have been working with several select stock exchanges, whereby we make available certain parts of our platform, under agreement, to integrate our offerings.
is our primary cloud-based subscription platform that efficiently and effectively helps manage the events of our customers seeking to distribute their messaging to key constituents, investors, markets and regulatory systems around the globe.
While the complete platform is available for a single subscription fee, companies also have the flexibility to choose one or more of the specific modules that fit their needs.
We recently completed the integration of FSCwire and rebranded it as ACCESSWIRE Canada, and will now begin to focus on offering those customers the full suite of products included in Platform id.
During the fourth quarter of 2017, our dataset and analytics were integrated into our ACCESSWIRE offering as a way to add value and expand distribution via highly targeted lists of professionals from the dataset.
Over the past year, we have been focused on refining the model of digital distribution of our customers’ message to the investment community and beyond.
The earnings event industry is a highly competitive space with the majority of the business being driven from practitioners in the investor relations and communications firms.
Additionally, as a commitment to broadening the reach of our webcast platform, all events will be broadcast live within our shareholder outreach module, which will drive new audiences and give companies the ability to view their analytics and engagement of each event.
Customers can subscribe to one or more of these data feeds from us or as a component of a fully designed and hosted website for pre-IPO, reporting companies and partners seeking to display our content on their corporate sites.
The clear benefit to our investor relations module is its integration into and with the rest of Platform id., meaning companies can produce content for public distribution and it is automatically linked to their corporate site, distributed to targeted groups and placed into and with our data feed partners.
Platform id.’s disclosure reporting module is a document conversion, editing and filing offering, which is designed for reporting companies and professionals seeking to insource the document drafting, editing and filing processes to the SEC’s EDGAR system and SEDAR, which is the Canadian equivalent of EDGAR.
On June 28, 2018, the SEC voted to adopt rules mandating the use of Inline XBRL (Inline Extensible Business Reporting Language or “iXBRL”) for the submission of financial statement information to the SEC.
The new requirements for iXBRL will have a three-year phase in beginning for large accelerated filers that use U.S. GAAP to be compliant for fiscal periods ending on or after June 15, 2019, for accelerated filers to begin reporting for fiscal periods ending on or after June 15, 2020 and for all other filers to begin reporting for fiscal periods ending on or after June 15, 2021.
Foreign filers with fiscal year’s ending on or after December 15, 2017, are now required to begin reporting their financial statements in XBRL with the SEC in 2018. has adopted the new IFRS taxonomy into and with its new disclosure upgrade for iXBRL to ensure our customers are able to meet these new mandates.
Managing the capitalization table of a public company or pre-IPO company is the cornerstone of corporate governance and transparency, and as such companies and community banks have chosen us to assist with their stock transfer needs, including bond offerings and dividend management.
Since the acquisition, we have been combining the stock information of both the legacy Issuer Direct customers and the acquired customers from Interwest onto our platform.
Total revenue increased by $324,000, or 11%, to $3,255,000 during the three-month period ended September 30, 2018, as compared to $2,931,000 during the same period of 2017.
Revenue from customers obtained from acquisitions of Interwest and FSCwire totaled $526,000 and $1,325,000 during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, of which $46,000 and $142,000 came from additional subscriptions to our platform or services cross sold to those customers.


item4.txt
As of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report on Form10-Q, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer conducted an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
None, except as previously disclosed on the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 5, 2018.
None.


