fls.txt



item1.txt
This report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2018, should be read in conjunction with the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on November 14, 2017.
As contemplated by the SEC under Article 8 of Regulation S-X, the accompanying consolidated financial statements and footnotes have been condensed and therefore do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles.
Results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those to be expected for the full year.
On September 2, 2014, Simulations Plus, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Cognigen Corporation (“Cognigen”, “Buffalo”) and Cognigen became a wholly owned subsidiary of Simulations Plus, Inc. Simulations Plus, Inc., acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated May 1, 2017.
Recently, the Company has begun to explore developing software applications for defense and for health care outside of the pharmaceutical industry.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Simulations Plus, Inc. and, as of September 2, 2014, its wholly owned subsidiary, Cognigen Corporation, and as of June 1, 2017, the accounts of DILIsym Services, Inc. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
Certain numbers in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.
As a byproduct of ongoing improvements and upgrades for the new programs and new modules of software, some modifications are provided to our customers who have already purchased software at no additional charge.
The Company provides, for a fee, additional training and service calls to its customers and recognizes revenue at the time the training or service call is provided.
Generally, we enter into one-year license agreements with customers for the use of our pharmaceutical software products.
We recognize revenue on these contracts when all the criteria are met.
Therefore, revenue is recognized one year at a time.


item2.txt
In September 2014, Simulations Plus acquired Cognigen Corporation (Cognigen) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 23, 2014, by and between Simulations Plus and Cognigen (the “Merger Agreement”).
Through the integration of Cognigen into Simulations Plus, Simulations Plus became also a leading provider of population modeling and simulation contract research services for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
Our clinical-pharmacology-based consulting services include pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling, clinical trial simulations, data programming, and technical writing services in support of regulatory submissions.
In June 2017, Simulation Plus acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated May 1, 2017.
As such, DILIsym can be a single program that addresses a wide variety of molecules across various companies, while NAFLDsym requires customizing the software for each mechanism of action.
Our innovations in integrating new and existing science in medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, pharmaceutical science, biology, physiology, and machine learning into our software have made us the leading software provider for PBPK modeling and simulation, prediction of molecular properties from structure, and prediction of drugs to induce liver injury or to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
They also use it to enhance their understanding of the properties of potential new medicines and to use emerging data to improve formulations, select and justify dosing regimens, support the generics industry, optimize clinical trial designs, and simulate outcomes in special populations, such as the elderly and pediatric patients.
Because we are outside of the European Union, our participation in this project was at our own expense, while other members were compensated for their work; however, we were a full member with access to all of the data and discussions of all other members.
Under this RCA, we received up to $200,000 per year.
This RCA could be renewed for up to a total of three years based on the progress achieved during the project.
The objective of this RCA, which has a five-year term, is directed toward the FDA’s evaluation of mechanistic IVIVCs (in vitro-in vivo correlations) to determine whether mechanistic absorption modeling (MAM) can relate laboratory (in vitro) dissolution experiment results to the behavior of dosage forms in humans and animals (in vivo) better than traditional empirical methods.
This version will add a number of important new capabilities, including improvements to absorption, metabolism, drug-drug interaction, and output reporting, among others.
DDDPlus simulates in vitro (laboratory) experiments that measure the rate of dissolution of a drug and, if desired, the additives (excipients) in a particular dosage form (e.g., powder, tablet, capsule, or injectable solids) under a variety of experimental conditions.
This unique software program is used by formulation scientists in industry and the FDA to (1) understand the physical mechanisms affecting the disintegration and dissolution rates of various formulations, (2) reduce the number of cut-and-try attempts to design new drug formulations, and (3) design in vitro dissolution experiments to better mimic in vivo (animal and human) conditions.
Current improvements in development and testing include new capabilities to simulate in vitro dissolution experiments for long-acting injectable microspheres as part of our work under the FDA-funded grant mentioned above.


item3.txt
The value of these receivables are subject to changes because the receivables may become worth more or less due to changes in currency exchange rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


