fls.txt



item1.txt
As contemplated by the SEC under Article 8 of Regulation S-X, the accompanying consolidated financial statements and footnotes have been condensed and therefore do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles.
On September 2, 2014, Simulations Plus, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Cognigen Corporation (“Cognigen”, “Buffalo”) and Cognigen became a wholly owned subsidiary of Simulations Plus, Inc. Simulations Plus, Inc., acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated May 1, 2017.
Recently, the Company has begun to explore developing software applications for defense and for health care outside of the pharmaceutical industry.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Simulations Plus, Inc. and, as of September 2, 2014, its wholly owned subsidiary, Cognigen Corporation, and as of June 1, 2017, the accounts of DILIsym Services, Inc. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
These estimates and assumptions are affected by management’s application of accounting policies.
Certain numbers in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.
As a byproduct of ongoing improvements and upgrades for the new programs and new modules of software, some modifications are provided to our customers who have already purchased software at no additional charge.
We consider the modifications that are provided without charge to be minimal, as they do not significantly change the basic functionality or utility of the software, but rather add convenience, such as being able to plot some additional variable on a graph in addition to the numerous variables that had been available before, or adding some additional calculations to supplement the information provided from running the software.
Such software modifications for any single product have typically occurred once or twice per year, sometimes more, sometimes less.
The Company provides, for a fee, additional training and service calls to its customers and recognizes revenue at the time the training or service call is provided.
Generally, we enter into one-year license agreements with customers for the use of our pharmaceutical software products.
We recognize revenue on these contracts when all the criteria are met.
Therefore, revenue is recognized one year at a time.


item2.txt
In September 2014, Simulations Plus acquired Cognigen Corporation (Cognigen) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 23, 2014, by and between Simulations Plus and Cognigen (the “Merger Agreement”).
Through the integration of Cognigen into Simulations Plus, Simulations Plus became also a leading provider of population modeling and simulation contract research services for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
Our clinical-pharmacology-based consulting services include pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling, clinical trial simulations, data programming, and technical writing services in support of regulatory submissions.
In June 2017, Simulation Plus acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated May 1, 2017.
As such, DILIsym can be a single program that addresses a wide variety of molecules across various companies, while NAFLDsym requires customizing the software for each mechanism of action.
They also use it to enhance their understanding of the properties of potential new medicines and to use emerging data to improve formulations, select and justify dosing regimens, support the generics industry, optimize clinical trial designs, and simulate outcomes in special populations, such as the elderly and pediatric patients.
The FDA currently has 30 floating GastroPlus licenses shared across various divisions.
Because we are outside of the European Union, our participation in this project was at our own expense, while other members were compensated for their work; however, we were a full member with access to all of the data and discussions of all other members.
In September 2016, we announced that Simulations Plus had been invited to join the European SimInhale Consortium and had been admitted to this prestigious group focused on advancing the state of the art for simulation of inhaled dosage forms.
Under this RCA, we received up to $200,000 per year.
The objective of this RCA, which has a five-year term, is directed toward the FDA’s evaluation of mechanistic IVIVCs (in vitro-in vivo correlations) to determine whether mechanistic absorption modeling (MAM) can relate laboratory (in vitro) dissolution experiment results to the behavior of dosage forms in humans and animals (in vivo) better than traditional empirical methods.
This version will add a number of important new capabilities, including improvements to absorption, metabolism, drug-drug interaction, and output reporting, among others.
DDDPlus simulates in vitro (laboratory) experiments that measure the rate of dissolution of a drug and, if desired, the additives (excipients) in a particular dosage form (e.g., powder, tablet, capsule, or injectable solids) under a variety of experimental conditions.


item3.txt
These transactions give rise to receivables that are denominated in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are not a party to any legal proceedings and are not aware of any pending legal proceedings of any kind.


