fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
As contemplated by the SEC under Article 8 of Regulation S-X, the accompanying consolidated financial statements and footnotes have been condensed and therefore do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles.
On September 2, 2014, Simulations Plus, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Cognigen Corporation (“Cognigen”, “Buffalo”) and Cognigen became a wholly owned subsidiary of Simulations Plus, Inc. Simulations Plus, Inc., acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated May 1, 2017.
Recently, the Company has begun to explore developing software applications for defense and for health care outside of the pharmaceutical industry.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Simulations Plus, Inc. and, as of September 2, 2014, its wholly owned subsidiary, Cognigen Corporation, and as of June 1, 2017, the accounts of DILIsym Services, Inc. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09 and its related amendments regarding Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 (ASC Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
We adopted ASC Topic 606, effective September 1, 2018, utilizing the modified retrospective method.
This approach was applied to contracts that were in process as of September 1, 2018, and the corresponding incremental costs of obtaining those contracts, which resulted in a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings at the date of adoption.
The reported results for fiscal year 2019 reflect the application of ASC Topic 606, while the reported results for fiscal year 2018 are not adjusted and continue to be reported under ASC Topic 605.
We generate revenue primarily from the sale of software licenses and providing consulting services to the pharmaceutical industry for drug development.
Sales commissions for new contracts are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of benefit.
Sales commissions for renewal contracts are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over the related contractual renewal period.
ASC 606 provides certain practical expedients that limit the requirement to disclose the aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations.


item2.txt
Our innovations in integrating new and existing science in medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, pharmaceutical science, biology, physiology, and machine learning into our software have made us the leading software provider for PBPK modeling and simulation, prediction of molecular properties from structure, and prediction of drugs to induce liver injury or to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
They also use it to enhance their understanding of the properties of potential new medicines and to use emerging data to improve formulations, select and justify dosing regimens, support the generics industry, optimize clinical trial designs, and simulate outcomes in special populations, such as the elderly and pediatric patients.
Our clinical-pharmacology-based consulting services include pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling, clinical trial simulations, data programming, and technical writing services in support of regulatory submissions.
Because we are outside of the European Union, our participation in this project was at our own expense, while other members were compensated for their work; however, we were a full member with access to all of the data and discussions of all other members.
Under this RCA, we received up to $200,000 per year.
This RCA could be renewed for up to a total of three years based on the progress achieved during the project.
After a successful second year, the RCA was extended for two additional years in September 2016, with primary tasks completed in September 2018.
This grant award, for $250,000 per year for up to two years, will focus on the incorporation of drug product quality attributes into dermal physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models developed for dermatological topical dosage forms and transdermal delivery systems.
We expect the developments under this agreement will aid companies and regulatory agencies as they strive to implement an animal-free chemical safety assessment program.
The objective of this RCA, which has a five-year term, is directed toward the FDA’s evaluation of mechanistic IVIVCs (in vitro-in vivo correlations) to determine whether mechanistic absorption modeling (MAM) can relate laboratory (in vitro) dissolution experiment results to the behavior of dosage forms in humans and animals (in vivo) better than traditional empirical methods.
This version will add a number of important new capabilities, including improvements to population simulations, dissolution, absorption, PBPK models, and drug-drug interactions, among others.
DDDPlus mechanistically simulates in vitro (laboratory) experiments that measure the rate of dissolution of a drug as well as, if desired, the additives (excipients) in a particular dosage form (e.g., powder, tablet, capsule, or injectable solids) under a variety of experimental conditions.


item3.txt
These transactions give rise to receivables that are denominated in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are not a party to any legal proceedings and are not aware of any pending legal proceedings of any kind.


