fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of Black Box have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
All references to dollar amounts herein are presented in thousands, except per share amounts, unless otherwise noted.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain items in the consolidated financial statements of prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income (loss), comprehensive income (loss), cash flows, total assets or total stockholders' equity.
Significant estimates in these financial statements include project progress towards completion to estimated budget, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, sales returns, net realizable value of inventories, loss contingencies, warranty reserves, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill.
Management believes the estimates made are reasonable.
The results of the Federal Business have been presented as discontinued operations and the related assets and liabilities have been reclassified as held for sale for all periods presented.
These assets, all of which are Property, plant and equipment, are presented as "Current assets held for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
On June 29, 2018, the Company and all the Lenders entered into the Second Amendment to our Credit Agreement ("Second Amended Credit Agreement" or "Second Amendment") in order to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility.
We anticipate that our principal sources of liquidity, including this LIFO Facility, will be sufficient to fund our activities through the maturity of the LIFO Facility which is currently expected to be January 17, 2019.
These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
These conditions are based on the Company's recurring losses from operations and negative operating cash flow, which have resulted in the need to take significant steps to generate additional liquidity.


item2.txt
References to “2Q19” mean the three-month period ended September 30, 2018 while references to "2Q18" mean the three-month period ended September 30, 2017.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Top Parent, Parent and BBX Intermediate have agreed to cause Merger Sub to commence a tender offer to purchase any and all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company, at a price of $1.08 per Share, net to the holder thereof, in cash, without interest thereon.
The Black Box Board of Directors unanimously approved the merger agreement following a thorough review of the full range of available strategic, financial and capital structure alternatives, which Black Box commenced and announced on February 6, 2018.
On August 27, 2018, the Company closed on its previously announced agreement to sell its Federal Government IT Services Business (the “Federal Business”) to Arlington Capital Partners, a leading private equity firm with a focus on businesses in government services and other adjacent markets, for a cash purchase price of $75.0 million.
The net cash proceeds from the sale of the Federal Business, after purchase price adjustments of $5.6 million, transaction fees and expenses of $3.2 million as well as $3.0 million of funds deposited into escrow for the finalization of certain closing items as well as certain indemnifications, were used to pay Bank fees, interest on bank debt and indebtedness.
The LIFO line is available for future borrowings, subject to continued compliance with the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
Interest on the LIFO Facility is LIBOR plus 10.0%.
The Company offers Services and Products that it distributes through two platforms that it has built over its 42-year history.


item3.txt
The Company does not hold or issue any other financial derivative instruments (other than those specifically noted below) nor does it engage in speculative trading of financial derivatives.


item4.txt
Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), for the Company.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Top Parent, Parent and BBX Intermediate have agreed to cause Merger Sub to commence a tender offer (as it may be extended, amended or supplemented from time to time, the “Offer”) to purchase any and all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company (the “Shares”), at a price of $1.08 per Share, net to the holder thereof, in cash, without interest thereon (such amount, the “Offer Price”).
Each Share that is not tendered and accepted pursuant to the Offer (other than Shares owned by BBX Intermediate, Merger Sub or the Company, or by any of their direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, and Shares held by stockholders of the Company who are entitled to demand and who will have properly and validly demanded their statutory rights of appraisal in compliance in all respects with Section 262 of the DGCL) will be automatically converted into the right to receive the Offer Price at the time of the Merger, and the Company will survive the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of BBX Intermediate, all upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement.


