fls.txt
One can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of Black Box have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain items in the consolidated financial statements of prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income (loss), comprehensive income (loss), cash flows, total assets or total stockholders' equity.
Significant estimates in these financial statements include project progress towards completion to estimated budget, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, sales returns, net realizable value of inventories, loss contingencies, warranty reserves, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill.
These assets, all of which are Property, plant and equipment, are presented as "Assets held for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
On June 29, 2018, the Company and all the Lenders entered into the Second Amendment to our Credit Agreement ("Second Amended Credit Agreement" or "Second Amendment") in order to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility.
We anticipate that our principal sources of liquidity, including this LIFO Facility, will be sufficient to fund our activities through approximately December 2018.
These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
These conditions are based on the Company's recurring losses from operations and negative operating cash flow, which have resulted in the need to take significant steps to generate additional liquidity.
The Company's significant accounting policy as it relates to revenues has been updated to reflect ASC 606 (as defined in the Recent Accounting Pronouncements below).
Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenues in a manner that best depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers for amounts that reflect the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Products revenues are recognized at the point in time in which control of the products transfer to customers.
Services revenues include network integration services, in which revenues are recognized over time either using either a cost-to-cost input method or a time and materials input method as those services are provided.


item2.txt
References to “1Q19” mean the three-month period ended June 30, 2018 while references to “1Q18” mean the three-month period ended June 30, 2017.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
The actual ending dates for the periods presented as of June 30, 2018 and 2017 were June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively.
Interest on the LIFO Facility is LIBOR plus 10.0%.
The Company offers Services and Products that it distributes through two platforms that it has built over its 42-year history.
New communications systems orders often generate post-implementation maintenance via a fixed fee model where revenues are earned ratably over the term of the agreement (generally 1-3 years for commercial clients and 3-5 years for government clients) or a variable fee model that is based on time and materials per occurrence, similar to on demand services.
Maintenance and on demand services revenues are also dependent upon the Company's relationship with its clients and its long track record of providing high-quality service.
The Company's Services business generates backlog which is defined by the Company as orders and contracts considered to be firm.
At June 30, 2018, the Company's total backlog, which relates primarily to Services, was $323,460, of which $228,405 is expected to be completed within the next twelve months.
Under our Products platform, we provide networking solutions through the sale of products for KVM switching, IT infrastructure, specialty networking and multimedia.


item3.txt
The Company does not hold or issue any other financial derivative instruments (other than those specifically noted below) nor does it engage in speculative trading of financial derivatives.


item4.txt
Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), for the Company.


part2.txt



