fls.txt
One can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of Black Box have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
All references to dollar amounts herein are presented in thousands, except per share amounts, unless otherwise noted.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain items in the consolidated financial statements of prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income (loss), comprehensive income (loss), cash flows, total assets or total stockholders' equity.
Significant estimates in these financial statements include project progress towards completion to estimated budget, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, sales returns, net realizable value of inventories, loss contingencies, warranty reserves, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill.
Management believes the estimates made are reasonable.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business.
These assets, all of which are Property, plant and equipment, are presented as "Assets held for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
There have been no accounting pronouncements adopted during Fiscal 2018 that have had a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
As we continue to assess all potential impacts of the standard, any preliminary conclusions are subject to change.


item2.txt
New communications systems orders often generate post-implementation maintenance via a fixed fee model where revenues are earned ratably over the term of the agreement (generally 1-3 years for commercial clients and 3-5 years for government clients) or a variable fee model that is based on time and materials per occurrence, similar to MAC work.
The Company's Services business generates backlog which is defined by the Company as orders and contracts considered to be firm.
At December 31, 2017, the Company's total backlog, which relates primarily to Services, was $344,463, of which $232,968 is expected to be completed within the next twelve months.
Under our Products platform, we provide networking solutions through the sale of products for KVM switching, IT infrastructure, specialty networking and multimedia.
The market for these products is a highly fragmented and competitive.
Management strives to develop extensive and long-term relationships with high-quality clients as Management believes that satisfied clients will demand quality services and product offerings from us even in economic downturns.
Total Revenues were $194,873, a decrease of 7% from $210,370 in the same period last year.
Government revenues increased due to market repositioning that was actioned over the past two years.
Product Revenues were $34,393, a decrease of 5% from $36,109 in the same period last year primarily due to a decrease in North America Products' sales as a result of lower demand in the legacy run rate business and due to the aforementioned realignment of the international business between Products and Services.
Total Gross profit margin was 27.0%, a decrease of 9% from 29.7% in the same period last year.
Product Gross profit margin was 38.7%, a decrease of 13% from 44.2% in the same period last year due to higher freight costs, lower margin deals, and product returns.


item3.txt
The Company does not hold or issue any other financial derivative instruments (other than those specifically noted below) nor does it engage in speculative trading of financial derivatives.
The Company’s primary interest-rate risk relates to its long-term debt obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement which was $141,750 as of December 31, 2017.


item4.txt
Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), for the Company.


part2.txt
We can provide no assurance that we will continue to have adequate liquidity as we are dependent upon our senior credit facility to fund our cash needs.
In August 2017, we amended our senior credit agreement to avoid a default of our then existing leverage covenant.


