item1.txt
Financial Statements.
 Level 1 – Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Corporate bonds with remaining maturities less than one year are classified as short-term, and those with remaining maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term.
 Level 2 – Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities.
We adopted ASU 2018-13 early, effective the quarter ended  September 30, 2018.
 On  January 21, 2009 we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2,500,000 of our Common Stock, and on  August 27, 2015 we announced that our Board authorized $5,000,000 of additional repurchases.
Financial Statements.
Unrealized holding gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the statement of shareholders’ equity.
 Total available-for-sale securities represented approximately 89% of our total assets.
We recognize revenue over a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
2018-13, Fair Value Measurement.
The removed and modified disclosures were adopted on a retrospective basis and the new disclosures on a prospective basis.
The guidance will be effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020 for us.
 We recognize revenue when we satisfy performance obligations by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services.
The adoption did not have a significant impact on our financial statements.
 In  May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
 Our performance obligations related to product sales and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
 We recognize contract research and development revenue over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period of time rather than a point in time.
We adopted the guidance using the modified retrospective method to contracts that were not complete as of  April 1, 2018.
2018-13, Fair Value Measurement.
Early adoption is permitted, and we adopted ASU 2018-02 in the quarter ended  June 30, 2018.
A contract liability is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
We consider all highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased, including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
We recognize any such commissions as selling, general, and administrative expenses.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230), Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which made eight targeted changes to how cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
As permitted under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, we are using the practical expedient not to disclose the value of these unsatisfied performance obligations.
 Level 2 – Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities.
We consider all highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased, including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230), Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which made eight targeted changes to how cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
None of the securities were impaired at acquisition, and subsequent declines in fair value are not attributed to declines in credit quality.


