 ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Basis of Presentation
The terms “MKS” and the “Company” refer to MKS Instruments, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The interim financial data as of June 30, 2019, and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 are unaudited; however, in the opinion of MKS, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet presented as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the consolidated audited financial statements as of that date.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements presented herein have been prepared in accordance with the instructions to Form
10-Q and do not include all of the information and note disclosures required by United States generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”).
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the MKS Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2019.
The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
On an
on-going basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, inventory, intangible assets, goodwill and other long-lived assets, warranty liabilities, pension liabilities, acquisition expenses, income taxes and investments.
Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
In October 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”)
2018-16,  “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard permits the use of the Overnight Index Swap Rate (“OIS”) based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes under Topic 815 in addition to the interest rates on direct treasury obligations of the U.S. government, the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) swap rate, the OIS rate based on the Federal Funds Effective Rate and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap Rate.
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU
Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic
internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an
internal-use software license).
The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments to this update.
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company is currently evaluating the requirements of this ASU and adoption could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU
2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard better aligns an entity’s risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results.
The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases”.
This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet.
This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019, and used the effective date as its date of initial application.
As such, the Company did not adjust prior period amounts.
The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs for leases that commenced prior to the effective date.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company implemented internal controls and a lease accounting information system to enable preparation on adoption.
Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of initially applying this new standard, resulting in the addition of $71,042 of
right-of-use assets and $20,192 and $54,147 of short-term and long-term lease liabilities, respectively.
The
right-of-use asset is net of the deferred rent liability, prepaid rent and a net favorable lease asset which were
re-classified to the
right-of-use asset upon adoption of the standard.
For additional information on the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting this standard, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Leases
The Company has various operating leases for real estate and non-real estate items.
The non-real estate leases are mainly comprised of automobiles but also include copiers, printers and other lower-valued items.
The Company does not have any finance leases.
The Company has lease arrangements with lease and non-lease components, has elected to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component, and has allocated all of the contract consideration to the lease component only.
The Company has existing net leases in which the non-lease components (e.g.
common area maintenance, maintenance, consumables, etc.)
are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred.
Therefore, non-lease components are not included in the right-of-use asset and lease liability and are reflected as expenses in the periods incurred.
The Company has existing leases that include variable lease and non-lease components that are not included in the right-of-use asset and lease liability, and are reflected as expenses in the periods incurred.
Such payments primarily include common area maintenance charges and increases in rent payments that are driven by factors such as future changes in an index (e.g., the Consumer Price Index).
A
right-of-use asset of $68,631, short-term lease liability of $20,670 and long-term lease liability of $51,141 were reflected on the balance sheet as of June 30, 2019.
The weighted average discount rate and the weighted average remaining lease term were
5.1 years, respectively, for the period ended June 30, 2019.
Operating cash flows used for operating leases for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $
Future lease payments under
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Minimum lease payments under operating leases prior to adoption of ASU
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Disaggregation of Revenue
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Product revenue, excluding revenue from certain custom products, is recorded at a point in time, while the majority of the service revenue and revenue from certain custom products is recorded over time.
Refer to Note 17 for revenue by reportable segment, geography and groupings of similar products.
Investments
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following tables show the gross unrealized gains and (losses) aggregated by investment category for
The tables above, which show the gross unrealized gains and (losses) aggregated by investment category for
available-for-sale  investments as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, reflect the inclusion within short-term investments of investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase.
Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.
Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets.
The Company reviews and evaluates its investments for any indication of possible impairment.
Based on this review, the Company has determined that the unrealized losses related to these investments at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were temporary.
Interest income is accrued as earned.
Dividend income is recognized as income on the date the stock trades
“ex-dividend.” The cost of marketable securities sold is determined by the specific identification method.
Realized gains or losses are reflected in income and were not material for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fair Value Measurements
In accordance with the provisions of fair value accounting, a fair value measurement assumes that the transaction to sell an asset or transfer a liability occurs in the principal market for the asset or liability or, in the absence of a principal market, the most advantageous market for the asset or liability and defines fair value based upon an exit price model.
Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities assessed as of the reporting date.
Active markets are those in which transactions for the asset or liability occur in sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments or securities or derivative contracts that are valued using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.
Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.
In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy.
In such cases, the Company categorizes such assets and liabilities based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
The Company’s assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The cash and cash equivalent amounts presented in the table above do not include cash of $303,513 as of June 30, 2019.
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The cash and cash equivalent amounts presented in the table above do not include cash of $456,940 as of December 31, 2018.
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Money Market Funds
Money market funds are cash and cash equivalents and are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
Available-For-Sale Investments
Available-for-sale investments consisted of time deposits, certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptance drafts, asset-backed securities (which include auto loans, credit card receivables and equipment trust receivables), commercial paper, corporate obligations, U.S. treasury obligations, U.S. agency obligations and group insurance contracts.
The Company measures its debt and equity investments at fair value.
The Company’s
available-for-sale investments are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Israeli Pension Assets
Israeli pension assets represent investments in mutual funds, government securities and other time deposits.
These investments are set aside for the retirement benefit of the employees at the Company’s Israeli subsidiaries.
These funds are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Derivatives
As a result of the Company’s global operating activities, the Company is exposed to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and variable interest rates, which may adversely affect its operating results and financial position.
When deemed appropriate, the Company minimizes its risks from foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations through the use of derivative financial instruments.
The principal market in which the Company executes its foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps is the institutional market in an over-the-counter environment with a relatively high level of price transparency.
The market participants usually are large commercial banks.
The forward foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate hedge are valued using broker quotations or market transactions and are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Derivatives
The Company enters into derivative instruments for risk management purposes only, including derivatives designated as hedging instruments and those utilized as economic hedges.
The Company operates internationally and, in the normal course of business, is exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
These fluctuations can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business.
The Company has used derivative instruments, such as forward foreign currency exchange contracts, to manage certain foreign currency exposure, and interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure.
By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks.
The Company enters into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions, for which no collateral is required.
The Company has policies to monitor the credit risk of these counterparties.
While there can be no assurance, the Company does not anticipate any material
non-performance by any of these counterparties.
Interest Rate Swap Agreements
On September 30, 2016, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement to fix the rate on approximately
50% of its then-outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement, as described further in Note 11.
This hedge fixes the interest rate paid on the hedged debt at
1.198% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was
 2.0% as of June 30, 2019, through
September 30, 2020.
At June 30, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was
 $290,000 and had a fair value asset of
 $2,055.
At December 31, 2018, the notional amount of this transaction was
 $290,000 and had a fair value asset of $6,083.
On April 3, 2019, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement, which has a maturity date of March 31, 2023, to fix the rate on $
300,000 of the then-outstanding balance of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, as described further in Note 11.
The rate is fixed at
2.309% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was
2.25% at June 30, 2019.
At June 30, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $
300,000 and had a fair value liability of $
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The interest rate swaps are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet and changes in the fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”).
To the extent that these arrangements are no longer an effective hedge, any ineffectiveness measured in the hedging relationships is recorded currently in earnings in the period it occurs.
Foreign Exchange Contracts
The Company hedges a portion of its forecasted foreign currency-denominated intercompany sales of inventory, over a maximum period of
eighteen months, using forward foreign exchange contracts accounted for as cash-flow hedges related to Japanese, South Korean, British, Euro and Taiwanese currencies.
To the extent these derivatives are effective in off-setting the variability of the hedged cash flows, and otherwise meet the hedge accounting criteria, changes in the derivatives’ fair value are not included in current earnings but are included in OCI in stockholders’ equity.
These changes in fair value will subsequently be reclassified into earnings, as applicable, when the forecasted transaction occurs.
To the extent that a previously designated hedging transaction is no longer an effective hedge, any ineffectiveness measured in the hedging relationship is recorded currently in earnings in the period it occurs.
The cash flows resulting from forward exchange contracts are classified in the consolidated statements of cash flows as part of cash flows from operating activities.
The Company does not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with gross notional values of $
Represents the receivable (payable) amount included in the consolidated balance sheet.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The net amount of existing gains as of June 30, 2019 that the Company expects to reclassify from OCI into earnings within the next
twelve months is immaterial.
Net change in the fair value of the effective portion classified in OCI.
Effective portion classified in cost of products for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
The tax effect of the gains or losses reclassified from accumulated OCI into income is immaterial.
The Company enters into foreign exchange contracts to hedge against changes in the balance sheet for certain subsidiaries to mitigate the risk associated with certain foreign currency transactions in the ordinary course of business.
These derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments and gains or losses from these derivatives are recorded immediately in other (expense) income.
Inventories
Acquisitions
Electro Scientific Industries, Inc.
On February 1, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “Merger Agreement”), by and among the Company, EAS Equipment, Inc., formerly a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and ESI (the “ESI Merger”).
At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax.
The aggregate consideration was $1,032,671, which excludes related transaction fees and expenses, and non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of $30,630, for a total purchase consideration of $1,063,301.
The Company funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of the Company’s available cash on hand and the proceeds from the Company’s senior secured term loan facility described in Note 11.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Represents the vested but not issued portion of ESI share-based compensation awards as of the acquisition date of February 1, 2019.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total estimated acquisition consideration is allocated to the acquired tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities of ESI based on their fair values as of the acquisition date.
Any excess of the acquisition consideration over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill.
The Company expects that none of such goodwill and intangible assets will be deductible for tax purposes.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, the Company recorded an increase in fair value of approximately $12,600 to property, plant and equipment, based upon the final valuation for land and three ESI facilities located in Portland, Oregon.
The Company also recorded a reduction in fair value of approximately $9,800 to inventories relating to three product lines.
These adjustments also resulted in an adjustment to intangible assets of $2,400 and goodwill of $1,300 and the related impact to the deferred tax line items.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The fair value write-up of acquired finished goods inventory was $7,624, the amount of which will be expensed over the period during which the acquired inventory is sold.
Accordingly, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, the Company recorded $2,484 and $7,624, respectively, of incremental cost of sales charges associated with the fair value write-up of inventory acquired in the ESI Merger.
The fair value write-up of acquired property, plant and equipment of $39,267 will be amortized over the estimated useful life of the applicable assets, excluding the fair value write-up in the value of land.
Property, plant and equipment is valued at its value-in-use, unless there was a known plan to dispose of the asset.
The acquired intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis, which approximates the economic use of the asset.
The net fair value of the acquired intangibles was determined using the income approach.
In performing these valuations, the key underlying probability-adjusted assumptions of the discounted cash flows were projected revenues, gross margin expectations and operating cost estimates.
The valuations were based on the information that was available as of the acquisition date and expectations and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by the Company’s management.
There are inherent uncertainties and management judgment required in these determinations.
This acquisition resulted in a purchase price that exceeded the estimated fair value of tangible and intangible assets, the excess amount of which was allocated to goodwill.
While the Company uses its best estimates and assumptions as part of the purchase price allocation process to value the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date, its estimates and assumptions are subject to refinement.
Fair value estimates are based on a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and rely heavily on estimates and assumptions.
The judgments used to determine the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact the Company’s results of operations.
The finalization of the purchase accounting assessment will result in a change in the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and may have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial position.
As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, the Company records adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with a corresponding offset to goodwill to reflect additional information received about facts and circumstances which existed at the date of acquisition.
The Company records adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed subsequent to the purchase price allocation period in the Company’s operating results in the period in which the adjustments are determined.
The size and breadth of the ESI Merger will necessitate the use of this measurement period to adequately analyze and assess a number of the factors used in establishing the fair value of certain tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date and the related tax impacts of any changes made.
Any potential adjustments made could be material in relation to the preliminary values presented above.
The Company believes the amount of goodwill relative to identifiable intangible assets relates to several factors, including broadening its position in key industrial end markets to complementary solutions, and leveraging component and systems expertise to provide robust solutions to meet customer evolving technology needs.
Certain executives from ESI had severance provisions in their respective ESI employment agreements.
The agreements included terms that were accounted for as dual-trigger arrangements.
Through the Company’s acquisition accounting, the expense relating to these benefits was recognized in the combined entity’s financial statements.
The Company recorded costs of $2,701 and $14,023 in acquisition and integration costs as compensation expense and stock-based compensation expense, respectively, for the six months ended June 30, 2019 associated with these severance provisions.
The restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights that were eligible for accelerated vesting if the executive exercised his or her rights but were not issued as of each reporting period-end, were excluded from the computation of basic earnings per share and included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for such reporting period.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Pro Forma Results
Incremental amortization and depreciation expense related to the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, respectively, from the purchase price allocation.
Revenue and cost of goods sold adjustments as a result of the reduction in deferred revenue and the cost related to their estimated fair value.
Incremental interest expense related to the Company’s 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, as defined and discussed in Note 11.
The exclusion of acquisition costs and inventory step-up amortization from the three and six month period ended June 30, 2019 and the addition of these items to the three and six month period ended June 30, 2018.
The exclusion of debt issuance costs due to the modification of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility from the three and six month period ended June 30, 2019 and the addition of this item to the three and six month period ended June 30, 2018.
The estimated tax impact of the above adjustments.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill
The Company’s methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established and generally accepted valuation techniques.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the sum of the amounts assigned to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired less liabilities assumed.
The Company assigns assets acquired (including goodwill) and liabilities assumed to one or more reporting units as of the date of acquisition.
Typically acquisitions relate to a single reporting unit and thus do not require the allocation of goodwill to multiple reporting units.
If the products obtained in an acquisition are assigned to multiple reporting units, the goodwill is distributed to the respective reporting units as part of the purchase price allocation process.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets requires significant judgment.
The Company regularly monitors current business conditions and other factors including, but not limited to, adverse industry or economic trends, restructuring actions and lower projections of profitability that may impact future operating results.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, the Company recorded $472,695 of goodwill related to the ESI Merger.
Intangible Assets
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Debt
Term Loan Credit Agreement
In connection with the completion of the acquisition of Newport Corporation (“
Newport”
) in 2016 (the “Newport Merger”), the Company entered into a term loan credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the lenders from time to time party thereto (the “Lenders”), that provided senior secured financing in the original principal amount of $780,000
The Wall Street Journal, (3) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for an interest period of one month adjusted for certain additional costs, plus 1.00%, and (4) a floor of 1.75%, plus, in each case, an applicable margin; or (b) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing adjusted for certain additional costs, subject to a LIBOR rate floor of 0.75%, plus an applicable margin.
The Company has elected the interest rate as described in clause (b).
The Credit Agreement provides that, unless an alternate rate of interest is agreed, all loans will be determined by reference to the Base Rate if the LIBOR rate cannot be ascertained, if regulators impose material restrictions on the authority of a lender to make LIBOR rate loans, or for other reasons.
The 2016 Term Loan Facility was issued with original issue discount of 1.00​​​​​​​% of the principal amount thereof.
The Company subsequently entered into four separate repricing amendments to the 2016 Term Loan Facility, which decreased the applicable margin for LIBOR borrowings from 4.0% to 1.75%, with a LIBOR rate floor of 0.75%.
As a consequence of the pricing of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility (defined below), the applicable margin for the 2016 Term Loan Facility was increased to 2.00% (from 1.75%) with respect to LIBOR borrowings and 1.00% (from 0.75%) with respect to base rate borrowings.
The interest rate on the 2016 Term Loan Facility as of June 30, 2019 was 4.4%.
On September 30, 2016, the Company entered into an interest rate​​​​​​​ swap agreement, which has a maturity date of September 30, 2020, to fix the rate on $335,000 of the then-outstanding balance of the 2016 Term Loan Facility.
The rate is fixed at 1.198% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 2.0% at June 30, 2019.
At June 30, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $290,000 and had a fair value asset of $2,055.
As of June 30, 2019, after total principal prepayments of $475,000 (which includes a $
50,000 prepayment made during the three months ended June 30, 2019) and regularly scheduled principal payments of $6,536, the total outstanding principal balance of the 2016 Term Loan Facility was $298,464.
As a result of making these prepayments, the Company is no longer required to make any regularly scheduled principal payments on the 2016 Term Loan Facility until the maturity date of the loan.
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company incurred $28,747 of deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the term loans under the 2016 Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method.
A portion of these fees have been accelerated in connection with the various debt prepayments during 2016, 2017 and 2018.
As of June 30, 2019, the remaining balance of the deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the 2016 Term Loan Facility was $2,648.
On February 1, 2019, in connection with the completion of the ESI Merger, the Company entered into an amendment (“Amendment No.
5”) to the Credit Agreement.
Amendment No.
5 provided an additional tranche
B-5 term loan commitment in the principal amount of $650,000 (the “2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility”), all of which was drawn down in connection with the closing of the ESI Merger.
Pursuant to Amendment No.
5, the Company also effectuated certain amendments to the Credit Agreement which make certain of the negative covenants and other provisions less restrictive.
The 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility matures on February 1, 2026 and bears interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, a base rate or LIBOR rate (as described above) plus, in each case, an applicable margin equal to 1.25% with respect to base rate borrowings and 2.25% with respect to LIBOR borrowings.
The 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility was issued with original issue discount of 1.00% of the principal amount thereof.
On April 3, 2019, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement, which has a maturity date of March 31, 2023, to fix the rate on $300,000 of the then-outstanding balance of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility.
The rate is fixed at 2.309% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 2.25% at June 30, 2019.
At June 30, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $300,000 and had a fair value liability of $6,688.
The Company incurred $11,362 of deferred finance fees and original issue discount fees related to the term loans under the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method.
As of June 30, 2019, the remaining balance of the deferred finance fees and original issue discount related to the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility was $10,895.
The Company is required to make scheduled quarterly payments each equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, with the balance due on February 1, 2026.
If, on or prior to the date that is six months after the closing date of Amendment No.
5, the Company prepays any loans under the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility in connection with a repricing transaction, the Company must pay a prepayment premium of 1.00% of the aggregate principal amount of the loans so prepaid.
At June 30, 2019, after regularly scheduled principal payments of $1,625, the total balance outstanding of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility was
 and the interest rate was
%.
Under the Credit Agreement, the Company is required to prepay outstanding term loans under the 2016 Term Loan Facility and the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, subject to certain exceptions, with portions of its annual excess cash flow as well as with the net cash proceeds of certain asset sales, certain casualty and condemnation events and the incurrence or issuance of certain debt.
As a result of the Company’s Total Leverage Ratio, it was not required to make a prepayment of excess cash flow for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
All obligations under the Term Loan Facility are guaranteed by certain of the Company’s domestic subsidiaries, and are collateralized by substantially all of the Company’s assets and the assets of such subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and provisions relating to events of default.
If an event of default occurs, the Lenders under the Term Loan Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the Term Loan Facility and all actions generally permitted to be taken by a secured creditor.
At June 30, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement.
Senior Secured Asset-Based Revolving Credit Facility
On February 1, 2019, in connection with the completion of the ESI Merger, the Company
entered into an asset-based credit agreement with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, the other borrowers from time to time party thereto, and the lenders and letters of credit issuers from time to time party thereto (the “ABL Credit Agreement”), that provides senior secured revolving credit financing of up to $100,000, subject to a borrowing base limitation (the “ABL Facility”).
On April 26, 2019, the Company entered into a First Amendment to the
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ABL Credit Agreement which amended the borrowing base calculation for eligible inventory prior to an initial field examination and appraisal requirements.
The borrowing base for the ABL Facility at any time equals the
% of certain eligible accounts; plus (b) prior to certain notice and field examination and appraisal requirements, the lesser of (i) 20
% of net book value of eligible inventory in the United States and (ii) 30
% of the borrowing base, and after the satisfaction of such requirements, the lesser of (i) the lesser of (A) 65
% of the lower of cost or market value of certain eligible inventory and (B) 85
% of the net orderly liquidation value of certain eligible inventory and (ii) 30
% of the borrowing base; minus (c) reserves established by the administrative agent, in each case, subject to additional limitations and examination requirements for eligible accounts and eligible inventory acquired in an acquisition after February 1, 2019
.
The ABL Facility includes borrowing capacity in the form of letters of credit up to $25,000
.
The Wall Street Journal, (3) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for an interest period of one month adjusted for certain additional costs, plus 1.00% and (4) a floor of 0.00%; and (b) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing adjusted for certain additional costs, with a floor of 0.00%.
The initial applicable margin for borrowings under the ABL Facility is 0.50% with respect to base rate borrowings and 1.50% with respect to LIBOR borrowings.
Commencing with the completion of the first fiscal quarter ending after the closing of the ABL Facility, the applicable margin for borrowings thereunder is subject to upward or downward adjustment each fiscal quarter, based on the average historical excess availability during the preceding quarter.
In addition to paying interest on any outstanding principal under the ABL Facility, the Company is required to pay a commitment fee in respect of the unutilized commitments thereunder equal to 0.25% per annum.
The Company must also pay customary letter of credit fees and agency fees.
The Company incurred $785 of costs in connection with the ABL Facility, which were capitalized and included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and are being amortized to interest expense over the contractual term of five years of the ABL Facility.
As a result of a prior asset-based facility being terminated concurrently with our entry into the ABL Facility, the Company wrote off
$216 of previously capitalized debt issuance costs.
The ABL Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and provisions relating to events of default.
If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the ABL Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the ABL Facility and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor.
The Company has not borrowed against this ABL Facility to date.
Lines of Credit and Short-Term Borrowing Arrangements
One of the Company’s Japanese subsidiaries has lines of credit and short-term borrowing arrangements with two financial institutions, which arrangements generally expire and are renewed at three-month intervals.
The lines of credit provided for aggregate borrowings as of June 30, 2019 of up to an equivalent of $21,312.
One of the borrowing arrangements has an interest rate based on the Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate at the time of borrowing and the other has an interest rate based on the Japanese Short-Term Prime Lending Rate.
There were no borrowings outstanding under these arrangements at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company recognized interest expense of $
9,352 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Product Warranties
The Company records the estimated costs to fulfill customer warranty obligations upon the recognition of the related revenue.
While the Company engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers, the Company’s warranty obligation is affected by shipment volume, product failure rates, utilization levels, material usage, and supplier warranties on parts delivered to the Company.
Should actual product failure rates, utilization levels, material usage, or supplier warranties on parts differ from the Company’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required.
Income Taxes
The Company’s effective tax rates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were 27.2% and 25.3%, respectively.
The effective tax rates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and related income tax expense, were higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to a correction of an out of period error with respect to deferred tax assets related to limitations on the deduction of executive compensation in the amount of $5,023.
This correction, which should have been recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2018, increased the Company’s effective tax rates in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 by
7.5%, respectively.
The prior period error and subsequent correction were not material to prior or current interim and annual financial statements.
The effective tax rates for these periods were also higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate due to tax effects of the global intangible low taxed income inclusion offset by the deduction for foreign derived intangible income, the benefit from the reinstatement of a capital loss and the utilization of various tax credits.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company’s effective tax rates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were
17.2%, respectively.
The effective tax rates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, and related income tax expense, were lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate mainly due to the geographic mix of income earned by the Company’s international subsidiaries being taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate, windfall benefits of stock compensation, and the deduction for foreign derived intangible income offset by the tax effects of the global intangible low taxed income inclusion and state income taxes.
As of June 30, 2019, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately
 $40,766.
At December 31, 2018, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately
$32,684.
The net increase was primarily attributable to the addition of historical gross unrecognized tax benefits for ESI as a result of the ESI Merger during the quarter ended March 31, 2019.
As of June 30, 2019, if these benefits were recognized in a future period, the timing of which is not estimable, the net unrecognized tax benefit of $33,069, excluding interest and penalties, would impact the Company’s effective tax rate.
The Company accrues interest expense, and if applicable, penalties, for any uncertain tax positions.
Interest and penalties are classified as a component of income tax expense.
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had accrued interest on unrecognized tax benefits of approximately
 and $
Over the next 12 months it is reasonably possible that the Company may recognize approximately
 of previously net unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, related to various U.S. federal, state and foreign tax positions primarily as a result of the expiration of certain statutes of limitations.
The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to examination by U.S. federal, state and foreign tax authorities.
The U.S. Internal Revenue Service commenced an examination of the Company’s U.S. federal income tax filings for tax years 2015 and 2016 during the quarter ended September 30, 2017.
This audit was effectively settled during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, and the impact was not material.
Also during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 the Company received notification from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service of their intent to audit its U.S. subsidiary, Newport, for tax year 2015.
This audit commenced during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 and was effectively settled during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 with a no change result.
The U.S. statute of limitations remains open for tax years 2016 through present.
The statute of limitations for the Company’s tax filings in other jurisdictions varies between fiscal years 2013 through present.
The Company also has certain federal credit carry-forwards and state tax loss and credit carry-forwards that are open to examination for tax years 2000 through the present.
Net Income Per Share
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
The computation of diluted EPS is similar to the computation of basic
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EPS except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding (using the treasury stock method) if securities containing potentially dilutive common shares (restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and stock appreciation rights (“SARs”)) had been converted to such common shares, and if such assumed conversion is dilutive.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, there were approximately 206,000 and 166,000 weighted-average RSUs, respectively, that would have had an anti-dilutive effect on EPS, and would thus need to be excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, there were approximately 99,000 and 49,000 weighted-average RSUs, respectively, that would have had an anti-dilutive effect on EPS, and would thus need to be excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares.
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company grants RSUs to employees and directors under the 2014 Stock Incentive Plan (the “2014 Plan”).
The 2014 Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors.
The 2014 Plan is intended to attract and retain employees and directors, and to provide an incentive for these individuals to assist the Company to achieve long-range performance goals and to enable these individuals to participate in the long-term growth of the Company.
   •
all RSUs that vest based solely on the satisfaction of service conditions, granted under any ESI equity plan, arrangement or agreement (“ESI Plan”) that were outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger, and as to which shares of ESI common stock were not fully distributed in connection with the closing of the ESI Merger,
   •
all RSUs that were granted subject to vesting based on both the achievement of performance goals and the satisfaction of service conditions granted under any ESI Plan that were outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger, and
   •
all SARs granted under any ESI Plan, whether vested or unvested, that were outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger and held by an individual who was a service provider of ESI as of the date on which the effective time of the ESI Merger occurred.
As of the effective time of the ESI Merger, based on a formula in the Merger Agreement, (a) such RSUs were converted automatically into RSUs with respect to 736,133 shares of the Company’s common stock (the “Assumed RSUs”), and (b) such SARs were converted automatically into SARs with respect to 12,787 shares of the Company’s common stock (the “Assumed SARs”).
Included in the total number of assumed RSUs are 326,283 shares of the Company’s common stock for employees and outside directors that are part of the ESI Deferred Compensation plan
These shares will not become issued shares until their respective release dates.
The shares of the Company’s common stock that are subject to the Assumed SARs and the Assumed RSUs are issuable pursuant to the Company’s 2014 Plan.
The 748,920 shares of the Company’s common stock that are issuable pursuant to the Assumed RSUs and the Assumed SARs under the Company’s 2014 Plan were registered under the Securities Act of 1933 on the Registration Statement on Form
S-8.
These shares are in addition to the 18,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock reserved for issuance under the Company’s 2014 Plan and previously registered under the Securities Act of 1933 on the Registration Statement on Form
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, the Company granted 396,192 RSUs with a weighted average grant date fair value of $86.54.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company granted 259,597 RSUs with a weighted average grant date fair value of $112.56.
There were
no SARs granted during the six months ended June 30, 2019 or 2018.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
At June 30, 2019, the total compensation expense related to unvested stock-based awards granted to employees and directors under the 2014 Plan that had not been recognized was $38,497, net of estimated forfeitures.
The future compensation expense for time-based awards is recognized on a straight-line basis and the future compensation expense for performance-based awards is recognized using the accelerated graded vesting method, both of which expense over the requisite service period, net of estimated forfeitures, except for retirement eligible employees, in which case the Company expenses the fair value of the grant in the period the grant is issued.
The Company considers many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards and historical experience.
Actual results and future changes in estimates may differ substantially from the Company’s current estimates.
Stockholders’ Equity
Share Repurchase Program
On July 25, 2011, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for the repurchase of up to an aggregate of $200,000 of its outstanding common stock from time to time in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or through other appropriate means.
The timing and quantity of any shares repurchased will depend upon a variety of factors, including business conditions, stock market conditions and business development activities, including, but not limited to, merger and acquisition opportunities.
These repurchases may be
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice.
The Company has repurchased approximately
2,588,000 shares of common stock for approximately $
127,000 pursuant to the program since its adoption.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no repurchases of common stock.
Cash Dividends
Holders of the Company’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by the Company’s Board of Directors.
In addition, the Company accrues dividend equivalents on the RSUs the Company assumed in the ESI Merger described in Note 15 above when dividends are declared by the Company’s Board of Directors.
The Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $
per share during each of the first and second quarters of 2019, which totaled
 per share.
The Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of
 per share during the first quarter of 2018 and
$
 per share during the second quarter of 2018, which totaled
 per share.
On
July 29, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share to be paid on
September 6, 2019 to shareholders of record as of
August 26, 2019.
Future dividend declarations, if any, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, are subject to the final determination of the Company’s Board of Directors.
In addition, under the terms of the Term Loan Facility and its ABL Facility, the Company may be restricted from paying dividends under certain circumstances.
Business Segment, Geographic Area, Product and Significant Customer Information
The Company is a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for its customers.
The Company’s products are derived from its core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics,
sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions.
The Company also provides services relating to the maintenance and repair of its products, installation services and training.
The Company’s primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense.
sub-micron positioning, vibration control, and optics.
The Company derives its segment results directly from the manner in which results are reported in its management reporting system.
The accounting policies that the Company uses to derive reportable segment results are substantially the same as those used for external reporting purposes.
The Company does not disclose external or intersegment revenues separately by reportable segment as this information is not presented to the CODM for decision making purposes.
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Total income tax expense is not presented by reportable segment because the necessary information is not available or used by the CODM.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Geographic
Information about the Company’s operations in different geographic regions is presented in the tables below.
Net revenues to unaffiliated customers are based on the location in which the sale originated.
Transfers between geographic areas are at tax transfer prices and have been eliminated from consolidated net revenues.
Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, net and certain other long-term assets, excluding long-term tax related accounts.
Worldwide Product Information
The Company groups its product offerings into
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Restructuring and Other
Restructuring
The Company recorded restructuring charges of $1,242 and $1,465 during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, primarily related to severance costs as a result of an organization-wide reduction in workforce, the consolidation
of service functions in Asia and the movement of certain products to low cost regions.
The Company recorded restructuring charges of $
during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, primarily related to severance costs as a result of streamlining and consolidating certain administrative functions.
Other
We recorded a charge of $
1,700 during the six months ended June 30, 2019 related to a contractual obligation we acquired as part of our acquisition of Newport in April 2016.
We recorded $1,000 of environmental costs during the six months ended June 30, 2018 related to a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency-designated Superfund site acquired as part of the Newport Merger.
Commitments and Contingencies
Newport Litigation
In 2016, two putative class actions lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
A-16-733154-C, and Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”).
The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors.
Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement.
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
The Court consolidated the actions, and plaintiffs later filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No.
A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Newport Merger Agreement.
The amended complaint alleged Newport’s former board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders and that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub had aided and abetted those breaches.
It sought monetary damages, including pre- and post-judgment interest.
In June 2017, the Court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.
On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants.
On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action.
The second amended complaint seeks monetary damages, including pre- and post-judgment interest.
The Court granted a motion for class certification on September 27, 2018, appointing Mr. Pincon and Locals 302 and 612 of the International Union of Operating Engineers - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives.
On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation.
On May 1, 2019, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to strike plaintiffs’ jury demand and determined that the case will be tried by the Court, and not a jury.
A bench trial is scheduled for the first quarter of 2020.
Fact discovery in the action is complete, and expert discovery is ongoing.
The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
Table of Contents
MKS INSTRUMENTS, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Assets Classified as Held for Sale
Table of Contents
 ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
Newport Litigation
In 2016, two putative class actions lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
 A-16-733154-C, and Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
 A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”).
The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors.
Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement.
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
The Court consolidated the actions, and plaintiffs later filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No.
 A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Newport Merger Agreement.
The amended complaint alleged Newport’s former board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders and that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub had aided and abetted these breaches.
It sought monetary damages, including
 pre- and post-judgment interest.
In June 2017, the Court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.
On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants.
On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action.
The second amended complaint seeks monetary damages, including
 pre- and post-judgment interest.
The Court granted a motion for class certification on September 27, 2018, appointing Mr. Pincon
Table of Contents
and Locals 302 and 612 of the International Union of Operating
Engineers - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives.
On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation.
On May 1, 2019, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to strike plaintiffs’ jury demand and determined that the case will be tried by the Court, and not a jury.
A bench trial is scheduled for the first quarter of 2020.
Fact discovery in the action is complete, and expert discovery is ongoing.
The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
 ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS.
Information regarding risk factors affecting the Company’s business are discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 in the section entitled “Risk Factors.” There have been no material changes to the risk factors as described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” in our Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 other than the supplemental risk factor added below.
If significant tariffs or other trade restrictions on our products or components that are imported from or exported to China continue or are increased, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed.
General trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating throughout 2018 and 2019, with one round of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July 2018, a second round in August 2018 and a third round in September 2018.
In response to each of these rounds of U.S. tariffs, China imposed retaliatory tariffs in July 2018, August 2018 and September 2018 on certain products made in the U.S. and shipped to China.
The Trump Administration subsequently increased its third round of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods in May 2019 from 10% to 25% and China responded with retaliatory increases to its third round of tariffs on certain U.S. goods in June 2019.
These tariffs currently affect some of our products made in China and some of the components that we or our suppliers source from China, and some of our products and components we export to China.
The U.S. and China tariffs have negatively impacted our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We are exploring and will continue to explore all of our options to reduce the impact of these tariffs on our business, including but not limited to, seeking alternative sources for our components, modifying other business practices, raising our prices, and shifting production outside of China.
In May 2019, the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) added Chinese-based Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. and 68 of its affiliates onto the BIS Entity List, thereby prohibiting the sale of U.S. goods to Huawei, without a license from BIS.
Accordingly, the Company has had to suspend outstanding orders from Huawei, and has been negatively impacted by the cancellation of orders from customers who are providers to Huawei.
In addition, China’s Ministry of Commerce announced in May 2019 that China will introduce an “unreliable entity list” under which non-Chinese entities that cut off suppliers to Chinese companies may be subject to government action.
Further, the geopolitical and economic uncertainty between the U.S. and China caused by the tariffs and trade bans have caused, and may continue to cause, decreased demand for our products, directly and indirectly, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.
This trade uncertainty has caused, and may continue to cause, customers to delay or cancel orders as they limit expenditures that could be affected by future actions and evaluate ways to mitigate their own tariff and cost exposure.
Such delays and cancellations could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Table of Contents
 ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS.
 +
Previously filed
Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
