fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying consolidated financial statements of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Company”) are unaudited and have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the year ending December 31, 2019.
The amendments in this update align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments in this update.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
The Company's products are sold with warranty provisions that require it to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of the Company's products over a specified period of time, generally twelve to twenty-four months, at no cost to its customers.
Warranty liabilities are established at the time that revenue is recognized at levels that represent the Company's estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled receivables and deferred revenue and advance payments from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Remaining performance obligations represent the aggregate transaction price allocated to performance obligations with an original contract term greater than one year which are fully or partially unsatisfied at the end of the period.
While the remaining performance obligation disclosure is similar in concept to backlog, the definition of remaining performance obligations excludes contracts that provide the customer with the right to cancel or terminate for convenience with no substantial penalty, even if historical experience indicates the likelihood of cancellation or termination is remote.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 84 percent of the remaining performance obligations over the next twelve months, and the remainder recognized thereafter.
The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) which allows employees to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock at 85 percent of the fair market value at the lower of either the date of enrollment or the purchase date.
The final purchase under the 2009 ESPP was on April 30, 2019 and the first offering under the 2019 ESPP commenced on May 1, 2019.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had approximately $45.5 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation costs, net of estimated forfeitures, to be recognized over a weighted average period of two years.


item2.txt
Consolidated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, increased by 1.2 percent year over year, from $439.6 million in the first quarter of 2018 to $444.7 million in the first quarter of 2019.
Increases in revenues for the three month period in our Industrial and Government and Defense business units were partially offset by declines in the Commercial business unit.
Cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $211.1 million compared to cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $221.7 million.
Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, increased from 49.6 percent in the first quarter of 2018 to 52.5 percent in the first quarter of 2019.
The increase in gross margin for the three and nine month periods was primarily due to product mix in the Government and Defense business unit and product mix and productivity improvement in the Industrial business unit.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 29 percent, 26 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies.
The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control.
A failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending on our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance our long-term competitiveness.
Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs.
Most of these intangibles are the result of acquisitions in which the purchase price exceeded the value of the tangible assets acquired.
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future.
From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits concerning intellectual property, torts, contracts, shareholder litigation, administrative and regulatory proceedings and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to our results of operations and may limit our ability to engage in our business activities.


