fls.txt



item1.txt
We deem that the customer obtains control upon delivery of the product and that obtaining control is not contingent upon contractual customer acceptance.
The counterparty to the forward exchange contracts is a substantial and creditworthy financial institution.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S.
The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms.
Our computerized machine tools are general purpose computer controlled machine tools that are typically used in stand-alone operations.
We estimate the fair value of these derivatives on a recurring basis using foreign currency exchange rates obtained from active markets.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.
As of April 30, 2019, the gross amount of interest accrued, reported in Accrued expenses and other, was approximately $30,000, which did not include the federal tax benefit of interest deductions.
On that date, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 21,825 shares of time-based restricted stock to our executive officers.
ASU 2016-02 clarifies the definition of a lease, requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications, and requires lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months.
The vesting date fair value of the performance shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the vesting date, which was $36.08 per share.
The U.S. Dollar equivalent notional amounts of these contracts was $127.5 million and $145.2 million at April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018, respectively.
Our unrecognized tax benefits were $234,000 as of April 30, 2019 and $205,000 as of October 31, 2018, and in each case included accrued interest.
For each contract, we identify our performance obligations, which is delivering goods or services, determine the transaction price, allocate the contract transaction price to the performance obligations (when applicable), and recognize the revenue when (or as) the performance obligation is transferred to the customer.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.


item2.txt
Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 15%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France.
We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by an increased sales mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales.
The year-over-year decrease in European orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $21.6 million, or 31% of sales, compared to $19.3 million, or 27% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $7.5 million, compared to $6.0 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Sales of service parts and service fees increased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 by 10% and 6%, respectively, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increase in sales was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines by the newly acquired distributor.
Certain statements made in this report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Other Income (Expense), Net.
The increase in sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines from the newly acquired distributor, as well as increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in the U.S. European sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
Interest on borrowings on our credit facilities are variable and tied to prevailing domestic and foreign interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.


