On November 15, 2017, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 2,364 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-executive employees.
On January 3, 2018, the Compensation Committee determined the degree to which the long-term incentive compensation arrangement approved for the fiscal 2015-2017 performance period was attained, and the resulting payout level relative to the target amount for each of the metrics that were established by the Compensation Committee in 2015.
However, in our opinion, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for and at the end of the interim periods.
The Company adopted the provisions of this guidance prospectively in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The Company adopted the provisions of this guidance prospectively in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
ASU 2016-02 is effective for our fiscal year 2020, including interim periods within the fiscal year, and requires modified retrospective application.
We estimate the fair value of these derivatives on a recurring basis using foreign currency exchange rates obtained from active markets.
The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine.
The grant date fair value of the PSUs – ROIC was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $42.20 per share.
Borrowings under our U.S. credit agreement bear interest either at a LIBOR-based rate or a floating rate, in each case with an interest rate floor of 0.00%.
We record all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities at fair value.Sales and Service Fees.
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the first three months of fiscal 2018.
Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $20.1 million, or 29% of sales, compared to $12.6 million, or 26% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.