fls.txt



item1.txt
We selected the forward method under FASB guidance related to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.
The year-over-year increase in our warranty reserve was primarily due to an increase in unit sales volume.
ASU 2016-02 is effective for our fiscal year 2020, including interim periods within the fiscal year, and requires modified retrospective application.
On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 30,557 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – ROIC”.
We deem the customer obtains control upon delivery of the product and that obtaining control is not contingent upon contractual customer acceptance.
On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 30,557 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – ROIC”.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through January 2020, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
Topic 606 was effective for us beginning November 1, 2018 and we adopted it on that date using the modified retrospective approach.


item2.txt
Dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $8.2 million compared to $7.2 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Sales in the Americas for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 39%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and reflected improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for vertical milling machines
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year period was primarily due to a one-time provisional adjustment related to the Tax Reform Act that was enacted in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Dollars for financial reporting purposes, and decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in Italy and France.
Dollars for financial reporting purposes, and decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in Italy and France.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The total number of shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to awards under the 2016 Equity Plan is 856,048, which includes 386,048 shares remaining available for future grants under the 2008 Plan as of March 10, 2016, the date our shareholders approved the 2016 Equity Plan.
The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms.
Sales of service fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 6%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket service of Hurco products in Germany.
Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $8.2 million compared to $7.2 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Prior to shipment, we test each machine to ensure the machine’s compliance with standard operating specifications.
We estimate the fair value of these investments on a recurring basis using market prices that are readily available.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar).
We estimate the fair value of these investments on a recurring basis using market prices that are readily available.
We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments – principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Between May 2014 and December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018.
Operating Income.
We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant.
We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments – principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.


