fls.txt



item1.txt
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support.
Included in Level 1 assets are mutual fund investments under a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
On that date, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 21,825 shares of time-based restricted stock to our executive officers.
For our five-axis machines that we install, we estimate the fair value of the installation performance obligation and recognize that installation revenue on a prorata basis over the period of the installation process.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
Dollars at July 31, 2019, were $19.3 million for Euros, $6.5 million for Pounds Sterling and $19.4 million for New Taiwan Dollars.
In December 2018, in connection with our entry into the 2018 Credit Agreement, (1) using cash on hand, we repaid in full the $1.4 million outstanding under, and terminated, our credit facility in China and (2) we terminated our United Kingdom credit facility.
As a result, as of July 31, 2019, our existing credit facilities consist of our €1.5 million revolving credit facility in Germany, the 150 million New Taiwan Dollars Taiwan credit facility, the 32.5 million Chinese Yuan China credit facility and the $40.0 million revolving credit facility under the 2018 Credit Agreement.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training, and applications support.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S.
On that date, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 21,825 shares of time-based restricted stock to our executive officers.
We maintain insurance policies for such matters, and we record insurance recoveries when we determine such recovery to be probable.
These PSUs were weighted as approximately 35% of the overall 2019 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the achievement of pre-established goals related to our average return on invested capital over the three-year period of fiscal 2019-2021.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S.
We have derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts as described in Note 3 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


item2.txt
We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems.
Sales for the nine months of fiscal 2019 included an unfavorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The decrease in European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to a reduced volume of shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany and the United Kingdom.
Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment.
Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by LCM in Italy.
Sales and Service Fees.
Orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $53.0 million, a decrease of $23.0 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $1.8 million, or 2%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
The increase in working capital was primarily due to an increase in inventories and decreases in accounts payable and accrued payroll and employee benefits.
Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France and the Americas.
Sales and service fees for the nine months of fiscal 2019 were $203.4 million, a decrease of $14.2 million, or 7%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $7.3 million, or 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.


item3.txt
All of our computerized machine tools and computer control systems, as well as certain proprietary service parts, are sourced by our U.S.-based engineering and manufacturing division and re-invoiced to our foreign sales and service subsidiaries, primarily in their functional currencies.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We believe that the ultimate resolution of claims for any losses will not exceed our insurance policy coverages.


