fls.txt



item1.txt
The three-year performance period for the PSUs is fiscal 2018 through fiscal 2020.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
The three-year performance period for the PSUs is fiscal 2018 through fiscal 2020.
This forward contract matures in November 2018.
2014-15 is effective for our fiscal year 2018, including interim periods within the fiscal year.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through July 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
We recognized losses of $58,000 for the three months ended July 31, 2017, as a result of hedges deemed ineffective for financial reporting purposes and did not qualify as cash flow hedges.
We also amended the U.S. credit agreement to increase the minimum working capital and minimum tangible net worth requirements from $90.0 million to $105.0 million and $120.0 million to $125.0 million, respectively.
Included in Level 1 assets are mutual fund investments under a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 460).
On February 14, 2018, we renewed this facility with an expiration date of February 13, 2019.
The rate we must pay for that portion of the U.S. credit agreement which is not utilized is 0.05% per annum.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
The grant date fair value of the PSUs – ROIC was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $42.20 per share.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.


item2.txt
The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period.
At July 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $77.0 million, compared to $66.3 million at October 31, 2017.
At July 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $77.0 million, compared to $66.3 million at October 31, 2017.
The increase was largely attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines.
We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets.
Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
During the nine months of fiscal 2018, approximately 55% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
Gross profit for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was $64.0 million, or 29% of sales, compared to $47.2 million, or 28% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017.
Operating Expenses.
We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world’s principal machine tool consuming markets.


item3.txt
We had no other debt or borrowings under any of our other credit facilities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


