fls.txt



item1.txt
2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, which requires management to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entity’s ability to continue as a going concern and provide related footnote disclosures.
We maintain insurance policies for such matters, and we record insurance recoveries when we determine such recovery to be probable.
Any additional impacts from the enactment of the Tax Reform Act will be recorded as they are identified during the remainder of the measurement period as provided for in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
We estimate the fair value of these derivatives on a recurring basis using foreign currency exchange rates obtained from active markets.
However, in our opinion, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for and at the end of the interim periods.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
We had no other debt or borrowings under any of our other credit facilities at either of those dates.
The vesting date fair value of the performance shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the vesting date, which was $42.20 per share.
As such, we adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
2014-15 is effective for our fiscal year 2018, including interim periods within the fiscal year.
On that date, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 14,810 shares of time-based restricted stock to our executive officers.
On November 15, 2017, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 2,364 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-executive employees.
At April 30, 2018, we had approximately $1.4 million of losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
The U.S. Dollar equivalent notional amounts of these contracts was $156.5 million and $134.3 million at April 30, 2018 and October 31, 2017, respectively.


item2.txt
Certain statements made in this report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017.
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, approximately 55% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
Approximately 72% of the $76.4 million of cash and cash equivalents is denominated in U.S.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first six months of fiscal 2018 were $26.3 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $22.9 million, or 21% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China and India, both of which are sales regions Hurco has been targeting for growth.
Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 22%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the first six months of 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China and India, both of which are sales regions Hurco has been targeting for growth.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
Orders in the Americas for the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased by 7%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 14%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017.


item3.txt
We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar).


item4.txt



part2.txt
Pursuant to applicable accounting rules, we accrue the minimum liability for each known claim when the estimated outcome is a range of possible loss and no one amount within that range is more likely than another.


