fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company included finance lease receivables of $13.3 and $14.4 in other assets as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
The following is a description of principal activities, separated by reportable operating segments, from which the Company generates its revenue.
First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing.
The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between separate services in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells the services.
Revenue on service contracts is recognized ratably over time, generally using an input measure, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed.
In some circumstances, when global service supply chain services are not included in a term contract and rather billed as they occur, revenue on these billed work services are recognized at a point in time as transfer of control occurs.
The Company applies the ‘as invoiced’ practical expedient related to performance obligations satisfied over time which permits the Company to recognize revenue in the amount to which it has a right to invoice the customer if that amount corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Company’s performance completed to date.
The Company provides front-end applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks and other self-service devices.
The Company's platform software is installed within bank and retail data centers to facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics.
These offerings include highly configurable, application program interface (API) enabled software that automates legacy banking and retail transactions across channels.


item2.txt
The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customer's integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and the digital worlds of transactions.
Commensurate with its strategy, the Company is executing a multi-year integration and transformation program which aligns employee activities with the Company's goal of realizing $240 of cost reduction by the year 2020.
To drive towards a singular Diebold Nixdorf culture, the Company will align around a few core characteristics, which reinforce the new priorities.
The Company is at the early stages of defining its roadmap to optimize and support the complete customer lifecycle - identifying an opportunity, contracting, delivering and collecting.
In order to achieve these efficiencies, the Company has and will continue to invest to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems, streamline legal entities and consolidate real estate holdings.
By executing on these activities, the Company expects to deliver greater innovation for customers, career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhanced value for shareholders.
These offerings enable customers to meet the growing demand for transaction availability at ATMs, POS, self-checkout systems (SCO) and other distributed assets in a cost-effective manner.
The global service supply chain optimizes the process for obtaining replacement parts, making repairs, and implementing new features and functionalities.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel, bank branch and retail store networks.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



