fls.txt



item1.txt
These leases support global staff via the use of office space, warehouses, vehicles and information technology (IT) equipment.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
Lease agreements are utilized worldwide, with the largest location concentration in the United States, Germany and India.
•The Company declined the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term and ROU asset impairment for existing leases.
The decision to decline the hindsight practical expedient resulted in relying on assessments made under ASC 840 during transition and re-assessing under ASC 842 going forward.
•The Company declined the short-term lease exception, therefore recognizing all leases in the ROU asset and lease liability balances.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and, therefore, are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate.
For real estate leases, these payments are most often tied to non-committed maintenance or utilities charges, and for equipment leases, to actual output or hours in operation.
All contracts containing the right to use an underlying asset are reviewed to confirm that the contract meets the definition of a lease.
As most leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Under the two-class method of computing earnings (loss) per share, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain rights to receive non-forfeitable dividends are considered participating securities.
The Company calculated basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share under both the treasury stock method and the two-class method.
In the first quarter of 2019, the Company changed its accounting estimate from using a forfeiture assumption to recording actual forfeitures.
The options expected to vest are the result of applying the pre-vesting forfeiture rate assumption to total outstanding non-vested options.
Performance shares are granted to employees and vest based on the achievement of certain performance objectives, as determined by the board of directors each year.
The Company's performance shares include performance objectives that are assessed after a three-year period as well as performance objectives that are assessed annually over a three-year period.


item2.txt
The Company’s integrated solutions connect digital and physical channels conveniently, securely and efficiently for millions of consumers every day.
As an innovation partner for nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers, the Company delivers unparalleled services and technology that power the daily operations and consumer experience of banks and retailers around the world.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems and processes, transition workloads to lower cost locations and consolidate real estate holdings.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer intimacy and satisfaction, while providing career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhancing value for shareholders.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers its clients the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Eurasia region includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.


item3.txt



item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt



