fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company included finance lease receivables of $12.8 and $14.4 in other assets as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables and other current assets.
The following is a description of principal solutions offered within the Company's two main industry segments that generate the Company's revenue.
The Company provides its banking customers product-related services which include proactive monitoring and rapid resolution of incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit.
First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others.
The Company's hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks, and other self-service devices.
The Company provides its banking customers front-end applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
For retail customers, the Company provides a comprehensive, modular solution capable of enabling the most advanced omnichannel retail use cases.
The Company's platform software is installed within bank and retail data centers to facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics.
The Company’s software solution includes its professional services team, who provides systems integration, customization, consulting and project management.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to meet branch and store automation objectives.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
Revenue from professional services are recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed or when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Products for banking customers consists of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation tools and kiosk technologies, as well as physical security solutions.
The retail product portfolio includes modular, integrated and mobile POS and self-checkout (SCO) terminals that meet evolving automation and omnichannel requirements of consumers.


item2.txt
•Partnered with Mastercard® on key technology and services agreements to strengthen the company's connected commerce offerings and further bridge physical and digital transactions.
The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customer's integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and the digital worlds of transactions.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems, streamline legal entities and consolidate real estate holdings.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer satisfaction, provide career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhance value for shareholders.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers in these industries the flexibility to select the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes - tailored to help drive operational efficiencies, grow revenue and manage risk.
Eurasia includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.


item3.txt
The Argentina operations represent less than one percent of the Company's total assets and total net sales as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt



