fls.txt



item1.txt
As a result of applying the correction retrospectively, previously reported service cost of sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 increased by $1.0 and $3.0, respectively, and previously reported net income and basic and diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.6 and $0.01 and $1.9 and $0.02, respectively.
The Company included finance lease receivables of $14.9 and $14.4 in other assets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables and other current assets.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
The following is a description of principal solutions offered within the Company's two main industry segments that generate the Company's revenue.
The Company provides its banking customers product-related services which include proactive monitoring and rapid resolution of incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit.
First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others.
The Company's hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks, and other self-service devices.
The Company provides its banking customers front-end applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
For its retail customers, the Company provides a comprehensive, modular solution capable of enabling the most advanced omnichannel retail use cases.
The Company's platform software is installed within bank and retail data centers to facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics.


item2.txt
•Transitioned to a new, streamlined and customer-centric operating model designed to drive global consistency across the organization while improving collaboration and enabling more agile decision-making.
•Initiated a services modernization program which includes updating customer touchpoints (ATM or POS), automating incident reporting and responses, and standardizing offerings and internal support processes.
This enhanced liquidity provides financial flexibility, facilitates acquiring the remaining shares of Diebold Nixdorf AG and supports DN Now initiatives.
The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customers' integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and digital worlds of transactions.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems, streamline legal entities and consolidate real estate holdings.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer satisfaction, provide career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhance value for shareholders.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.


item3.txt
The Company operates in Argentina through a wholly-owned subsidiary, Diebold Argentina, S.A.


item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt
For more information regarding legal proceedings, please refer to Part I, Item 3 of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.


