fls.txt



item1.txt
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1, Organization and Basis of Presentation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018.
The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
Fiscal year 2020, which ends on July 3, 2020, will be comprised of 53 weeks, with the first quarter consisting of 14 weeks and the remaining quarters consisting of 13 weeks each.
2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”), to reduce diversity in practice in accounting for the costs of implementing cloud computing arrangements that are service contracts.
The adoption of this standard and the costs capitalized for the six months ended December 28, 2018 were not material to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Topic 606 outlines a comprehensive five-step revenue recognition model based on the principle that an entity should recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Topic 606 also requires more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
Results for reporting periods beginning with fiscal year 2019 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period information presented on the financial statements or elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is reported under the Company’s historic accounting policies under Topic 605 in effect for that period and is not adjusted to reflect the retrospective effect of the adoption of Topic 606.
The cumulative effect of adopting Topic 606 was a post-tax increase to the opening retained earnings of $56 million as of June 30, 2018, which was primarily related to our license and royalty revenue arrangements.
These arrangements had no remaining performance obligations but were previously recognized under Topic 605 when they were reported to the Company by its licensees, which was generally one quarter in arrears from the licensees’ sales of the licensed products.
Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, as of or for the three and six months ended December 28, 2018, and the Company expects that the impact of the adoption of the new standard will not be material to its results of operations prospectively.
The Company’s performance obligations are typically not constrained based on the Company’s history with similar transactions and that uncertainties are resolved in a fairly short period of time.
Substantially all of the Company’s revenue is from the sale of tangible products for which the performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time, generally upon delivery.
Similarly, revenue from patent licensing arrangements is recognized based on whether the arrangement provides the customer a right to use or right to access the IP.


item2.txt
As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” and the “Company” refer to Western Digital Corporation and its subsidiaries.
The favorable demand environment for flash-based products during the last several quarters has begun to normalize as technology conversions are maturing and manufacturing yields are improving, thus increasing flash supply relative to demand.
We are obligated to purchase half of Flash Ventures’ flash-based memory wafer supply or pay for half of Flash Ventures’ fixed costs regardless of the output we choose to purchase.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
•We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers and we could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances.
•If negative or uncertain global economic conditions result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired, we could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with TMC to develop and manufacture flash-based memory products for our flash-based memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results are dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
Over-investment could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete inventory or inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in Flash Ventures.
If our flash-based memory supply is limited, we may make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, and these strategic allocation decisions may result in less favorable gross margin or damage certain customer relationships.
If we are unable to extend our partnership with TMC to the Kitakami facility on favorable terms, our future supply of captive flash-based memory could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our long-term business and financial results.
Demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this Item 1A as our “products”, depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers (“PCs”) and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems.
In addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features.
If we are unable to effectively compete with any manufacturers located in China or non-Chinese competitors benefitting from alliances with Chinese companies in the markets where we compete, our operating results and financial condition will suffer.


