fls.txt



item1.txt
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
2015‑11, “Inventory (Topic 330) - Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory” (“ASU 2015‑11”), which dictates that an entity should measure inventory within the scope of this update at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
On September 15, 2017, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of Tegile Systems, Inc., a provider of flash and persistent-memory storage solutions for enterprise data center applications.
These acquisitions are primarily intended to help meet the evolving needs of customers, while driving long-term growth for the Company's existing data center and client solution products over the long term.
The aggregate purchase price of acquisitions during the six months ended December 29, 2017 was $99 million in cash, with net assets acquired primarily consisting of developed technology and other intangibles assets, of which $61 million was allocated to goodwill.
Goodwill is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from diversifying product offerings to its Data Center Devices and Solutions and Client Solutions end markets as well as the acquired workforce.
During the six months ended December 29, 2017, the Company incurred $6 million of transaction expenses related to these acquisitions, which are primarily included within Selling, General and Administrative expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The long-term portion of the warranty accrual classified in Other liabilities was $110 million and $125 million as of December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
Level 2.Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3.Inputs that are unobservable for the asset or liability and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments.
Each of the financial instruments presented below was categorized as Level 2 for all periods presented, based on the frequency of trading immediately prior to the end of the second quarter of 2018 and the fourth quarter of 2017, respectively.


item2.txt
For additional information regarding the 2017 Act, see Part I, Item 1, Note 10, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
See also the discussion in “Results of Operations-Income Tax Expense” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for information regarding the impact of the 2017 Act on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
In September 2017, Toshiba Corporation (“Toshiba”), of which TMC is a wholly owned subsidiary, announced it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell TMC, including its interest in Flash Ventures, to a consortium led by SK Hynix Inc. and Bain Capital Private Equity, L.P., BCPE Pangea Cayman, L.P., BCPE Pangea Cayman2, Ltd., Bain Capital Fund XII, L.P., Bain Capital Asia Fund III, L.P. and Pangea (together, “Bain Capital”), that includes other competitors, as well as key customers.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The risks and uncertainties discussed below update and supersede the risks and uncertainties previously disclosed in Part II, Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 29, 2017.
Our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products.
Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”), or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products.
If demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand.
In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk from time to time by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances.
Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss.
We test goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth quarter and at other times if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, TMC, to develop and manufacture NAND-flash memory products for our NAND-flash memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of SanDisk Corporation (“SanDisk”) in May 2016, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger”), is dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
The majority of our NAND-flash memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes.
Over-investment could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete or lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in Flash Ventures.


