fls.txt
Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within "Forward-Looking Statements" below, and in Item 1A.


item1.txt
Financial Statements (Unaudited).
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell" or the "Company"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU"), which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
In July 2015, the FASB issued a new ASU, which aligns the measurement of inventory under GAAP more closely with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Under the new guidance, an entity that measures inventory using FIFO or average cost should measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation.
The standard requires cash flows from excess tax benefits and deficiencies, previously classified as a financing activity, to be classified as an operating activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted these provisions of the guidance prospectively in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Also, as part of the adoption, a $9.7 adjustment was recorded to increase retained earnings and deferred tax assets to recognize the cumulative amount of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits as of October 1, 2017.
Finally, under the ASU, the Company elected to record forfeitures as they occur.
This election did not have a material impact on the financial statements.


item2.txt
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Risk Factors and "Forward-Looking Statements" included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as the gain on the disposition of the gloves business, restructuring charges, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act.
All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
Industry and Market Data.
Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry.
We have not independently verified data from industry analyses and cannot guarantee accuracy or completeness.
In addition, we believe that data regarding the industry, market size and our market position and market share within such industry provide general guidance but are inherently imprecise.
Trademarks and Trade Names.
Forward-Looking Statements.
•Our inability to execute a successful e-commerce strategy could have a significant impact on our business.
•A failure of a key information technology system or a breach of our information security could adversely impact our ability to conduct business.


item3.txt
As of December 31, 2017, our outstanding variable-rate debt included $398.0 on our revolving credit facility in the U.S., $185.0 on our term loan and $21.1 related to our international, variable-rate note payable.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.


