fls.txt
Risk Factors and “Forward-Looking Statements” included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.


item1.txt
Financial Statements (Unaudited).
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Edgewell” or the “Company”), is one of the world’s largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care, and infant care categories.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), under the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries, and across capital markets.
During 2016, the FASB issued three ASUs clarifying the revenue recognition implementation guidance on various topics included within the original ASU.
The Company adopted the ASU for revenue recognition beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
Those sales predominantly contain a single delivery element and revenue is recognized at a single point in time when ownership, risks, and rewards transfer.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and distributions received from equity method investees, among others.
The impact of the adoption of the ASU resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset and a credit to retained earnings of $3.9.
The guidance also requires that an integrated set of assets and activities must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output to be considered a business and removes the evaluation of whether a market participant could replace the missing elements.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases.
Additionally, this update requires qualitative disclosure along with specific quantitative disclosures.
The update will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
As such, the Company will continue to expense any costs to obtain a contract.


item2.txt
While we report financial results in accordance with GAAP, this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.
•Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities less net capital expenditures.
All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in U.S. dollars.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You should not place undue reliance on these statements.
Risk Factors of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
In February 2018, we announced Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure and key processes that will enable us to achieve our desired future state operations.


item3.txt
As of December 31, 2018, there were no open derivative or hedging instruments for future purchases of raw materials or commodities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 2.


