fls.txt
Risk Factors and “Forward-Looking Statements” included within our 2018 Annual Report.


item1.txt
Financial Statements (Unaudited).
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Edgewell” or the “Company”), is one of the world’s largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care, and infant care categories.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Audited Annual Consolidated Financial Statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018 (“2018 Annual Report”).
Statement of Cash Flows Presentation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries, and across capital markets.
The Company adopted the ASU for revenue recognition beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
As a result, the adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the timing of revenue recognition.
Refer to Note 2 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and distributions received from equity method investees, among others.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an ASU clarifying the definition of a business, reducing the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated, and providing a framework to assist entities in evaluating whether both an input and a substantive process are present.
The amendments set forth in the ASU specify that when the fair value of the gross assets acquired or disposed of is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similarly identifiable assets, the integrated set of assets and activities is not a business.
The guidance also requires that an integrated set of assets and activities must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output to be considered a business and removes the evaluation of whether a market participant could replace the missing elements.
The amendments provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases.


item2.txt
This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You should not place undue reliance on these statements.
Risk Factors of Part I of our 2018 Annual Report.
While we report financial results in accordance with GAAP, this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s acquisition and integration planning costs, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, Sun Care reformulation charges, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expense, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.
All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in U.S. dollars.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
We intend to finance the Merger through a combination of cash on our balance sheet, net new debt and equity.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch has provided committed financing in connection with the Merger.
The Merger of Edgewell and Harry’s brings together complementary capabilities to create a next-generation consumer products platform with an expansive runway for accelerated topline growth and enhanced value creation.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



