fls.txt
Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within "Forward-Looking Statements" below, and in Item 1A.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
Refer to Note 2 for additional details regarding the acquisition of Jack Black, L.L.C.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
Acquisition of Jack Black.
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States.
For more information on the acquisition, see Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
Under the new guidance, an entity that measures inventory using FIFO or average cost should measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation.
The standard requires cash flows from excess tax benefits and deficiencies, previously classified as a financing activity, to be classified as an operating activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Also, as part of the adoption, a $9.7 adjustment was recorded to increase retained earnings and deferred tax assets to recognize the cumulative amount of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits as of October 1, 2017.
Finally, under the ASU, the Company elected to record forfeitures as they occur.
This election did not have a material impact on the Company's financial statements.


item2.txt
Risk Factors and "Forward-Looking Statements" included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as impairment charges, Jack Black integration costs, restructuring charges, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.
•Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flows less any capital expenditures in current year.
All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
Industry and Market Data.
Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry.
We have not independently verified data from industry analyses and cannot guarantee its accuracy or completeness.
Trademarks and Trade Names.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
Forward-Looking Statements.
•Our inability to execute a successful e-commerce strategy could have a significant impact on our business.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Refer to Item 1A.


