◦Sustain growth or profitability, particularly in light of an uncertain U.S. or worldwide economy and the related impact on customer acquisition and retention rates, customer usage levels and credit and debit card payment declines;
◦Maintain and increase our Cloud Services customer base and average revenue per user;
◦Generate sufficient cash flow to make interest and debt payments and reinvest in our business, and pursue desired activities and businesses plans while satisfying restrictive covenants relating to debt obligations;
◦Acquire businesses on acceptable terms and successfully integrate and realize anticipated synergies from such acquisitions;
◦Accurately estimate the assumptions underlying our effective worldwide tax rate;
◦Continue to pay a comparable cash dividend on a quarterly basis;
◦Maintain favorable relationships with critical third-party vendors whose financial condition will not negatively impact the services they provide;
◦Create compelling digital media content causing increased traffic and advertising levels; additional advertisers or an increase in advertising spend; and effectively target digital media advertisements to desired audiences;
◦Compete with other similar providers with regard to price, service and functionality;
◦Cost-effectively procure, retain and deploy large quantities of telephone numbers in desired locations in the United States and abroad;
◦Achieve business and financial objectives in light of burdensome domestic and international telecommunications, internet or other regulations including data privacy, security and retention;
◦Successfully manage our growth, including but not limited to our operational and personnel-related resources, and integration of newly acquired businesses;
◦Successfully adapt to technological changes and diversify services and related revenues at acceptable levels of financial return;
Overview
j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, “the Company”, “our”, “us” or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services. Through our Cloud Services segment, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties. In addition, the Cloud Services segment includes fax, voice, backup, security and email marketing products. Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
In addition to growing our business organically, on a regular basis we acquire businesses to grow our customer bases, expand and diversify our service offerings, enhance our technologies, acquire skilled personnel and enter into new markets. 
Cloud Services Segment Performance Metrics
Digital Media Segment Performance Metrics
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
As of January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective method. In addition, we presented the cumulative effect of the changes made to our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2018 and the impact of adopting Topic 606 on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See Note 3 - Revenues to the condensed consolidated financial statements for our revenue recognition policy as of January 1, 2018.
Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018
Cloud Services Segment
Assuming a stable or improving economic environment, and subject to our risk factors, we expect the revenue and profits in our Digital Media segment to improve over the next several quarters as we integrate our recent acquisitions and over the longer term as advertising transactions continue to shift from offline to online. The main focus of our advertising programs is to provide relevant and useful advertising to visitors to our websites and those included within our advertising networks, reflecting our commitment to constantly improve their overall web experience. As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to improve the relevance of the ads displayed on our websites and those included within our advertising networks.
The operating margin we realize on revenues generated from ads placed on our websites is significantly higher than the operating margin we realize from revenues generated from those placed on third-party websites. Growth in advertising revenues from our websites has generally exceeded that from third-party websites. This trend has had a positive impact on our operating margins, and we expect that this will continue for the foreseeable future. However, the trend in advertising spend is shifting to mobile devices and other newer advertising formats which generally experience lower margins than those from desktop computers and tablets. We expect this trend to continue to put pressure on our margins.
Revenues
Our revenues consist of revenues from our Cloud Services segment and from our Digital Media segment. Cloud Services revenues primarily consist of revenues from “fixed” customer subscription revenues and “variable” revenues generated from actual usage of our services. We also generate Cloud Services revenues from IP licensing. Digital Media revenues primarily consist of advertising revenues, fees paid for generating business leads, and licensing and sale of editorial content and trademarks.
Our revenues in 2018 have increased over the comparable three month period of 2017 primarily due to a combination of acquisitions and organic growth within both the Digital Media and Cloud Services segments.
Cost of Revenues
Operating Expenses
Sales and Marketing.
Our sales and marketing costs consist primarily of internet-based advertising, sales and marketing, personnel costs and other business development-related expenses. Our internet-based advertising relationships consist primarily of fixed cost and performance-based (cost-per-impression, cost-per-click and cost-per-acquisition) advertising relationships with an array of online 
service providers. Advertising cost for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $38.5 million (primarily consists of $25.3 million of third-party advertising costs and $10.6 million of personnel costs) compared to 2017 of $31.5 million (primarily consists of $20.7 million third-party advertising costs and $10.0 million personnel costs). The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus the prior comparable period was primarily due to increased personnel costs and advertising associated with the acquisition of businesses acquired in and subsequent to the first quarter 2017 within the Digital Media segment.
Research, Development and Engineering.
General and Administrative.
Our general and administrative costs consist primarily of personnel-related expenses, depreciation and amortization, changes in the fair value associated with contingent consideration, share-based compensation expense, bad debt expense, professional fees, severance and insurance costs. The increase in general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus the prior comparable period was primarily due to additional amortization of intangible assets, depreciation of fixed assets, personnel costs relating to businesses acquired in and subsequent to the first quarter 2017, severance costs associated with acquisitions, fair value adjustments to contingent consideration and professional fees.
Share-Based Compensation
Non-Operating Income and Expenses
Interest expense, net. Our interest expense, net is generated primarily from interest expense due to outstanding debt, partially offset by interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments. Interest expense, net was $15.8 million and $12.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Interest expense, net increased over the prior comparable period primarily due to increased interest expense associated with the issuance of the $650 million 6.0% Senior Notes; partially offset by increased interest income on cash, cash equivalents and investments.
Other expense, net. Our other expense, net is generated primarily from miscellaneous items, gain or losses on currency exchange and gains or losses on investments. Other expense, net was $4.5 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Other expense, net increased due to a loss on equity securities of $3.7 million and increased losses on currency exchange over the prior comparable period.
Provision for income taxes amounted to $7.0 million and $9.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our effective tax rate was 27.1% and 26.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
1.a decrease in tax benefit during 2018 related to revaluing deferred tax assets and liabilities; and
3.a decrease during 2018 from the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective on January 1, 2018.
Segment Results
We evaluate the performance of our operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating income. We account for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, deferred income taxes and certain other assets. All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at our consolidated financial results.
Cloud Services
Segment net sales of $149.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $7.9 million, or 5.6%, from the prior comparable period due to business acquisitions.
Segment gross profit of $118.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $6.0 million, or 5.4%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to business acquisitions.
Segment operating expenses of $61.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $5.4 million, or 9.7%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to (a) additional expense associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the prior comparable period (b) increased bad debt expense; and (c) an allocation of certain shared Corporate operating costs. As a result of these factors, segment operating income of $56.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $0.6 million, or 1.0%, from the prior comparable period. Our Cloud Services segment consists of several services which have similar economic characteristics, including the nature of the services and their production processes, the type of customers, as well as the methods used to distribute these services.
Segment net sales of $131.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $18.0 million, or 15.9%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to business acquisitions.
Segment gross profit of $114.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $12.6 million, or 12.4%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to business acquisitions.
Segment operating expenses of $117.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $12.5 million, or 11.9%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to (a) additional expense associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the prior comparable period comprised primarily of salary and related costs, marketing costs, changes in fair value of contingent consideration and amortization of intangible assets; and (b) an allocation of certain shared Corporate operating costs. As a result of these factors, segment operating (loss) income of $(3.4) million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 decreased $0.1 million, or 2.3%, from the prior comparable period.
At March 31, 2018, we had cash and investments of $396.3 million compared to $408.7 million at December 31, 2017. The decrease in cash and investments resulted primarily from business acquisitions, dividends and interest paid, and purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by cash from operations. At March 31, 2018, cash and investments consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $331.4 million. We retain a substantial portion of our cash and investments in foreign jurisdictions for future reinvestment. As of March 31, 2018, cash and investments held within domestic and foreign jurisdictions were $146.1 million and $250.2 million, respectively. If we were to repatriate funds held within foreign jurisdictions, we would incur U.S. income tax on the repatriated amount at the federal statutory rate of 35% and the state statutory rate where applicable, net of a credit for foreign taxes paid on such amounts.
On February 2, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4050 per share of common stock payable on March 9, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 22, 2018. On May 3, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4150 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on June 1, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 18, 2018. Future dividends are subject to Board approval.
During the first quarter 2018, the Company received capital call notices from the management of OCV for approximately $13.4 million, inclusive of certain management fees.
We currently anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital, capital expenditure, stock repurchases and cash dividends for at least the next 12 months.
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations, together with cash and cash equivalents. Net cash provided by operating activities was $103.9 million and $51.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our operating cash flows resulted primarily from cash received from our customers offset by cash payments we made to third parties for their services, employee compensation and interest payments associated with our debt. The increase in our net cash provided by operating activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to a decrease in accounts receivable and increased depreciation and amortization; partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $331.8 million and $350.9 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Net cash used in investing activities was $(107.0) million and $(13.4) million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to business acquisitions, purchase of investments, and capital expenditures associated with the purchase of property and equipment. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to capital expenditures associated with the purchase of property and equipment, business acquisitions and the purchase of intangible assets. The increase in our net cash used in investing activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to additional business acquisitions.
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities was $(20.1) million and $25.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to dividends paid, repurchases of stock and business acquisitions. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, net cash provided by financing activities was primarily attributable to proceeds from a line of credit and exercise of stock options; partially offset by dividends paid, business acquisitions, and repurchases of stock. The change in net cash used in financing activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to the proceeds from the line of credit in the prior comparable period.
Stock Repurchase Program
In February 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 19, 2019. During the three month period ended March 31, 2018, we repurchased zero shares under this program. Cumulatively at March 31, 2018, 2.1 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $58.6 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).
As of March 31, 2018, our liability for uncertain tax positions was $53.3 million. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with such authorities. 
We have not presented contingent consideration associated with acquisitions in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and the timing of cash settlements.
We are not party to any material off-balance sheet arrangements.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Effective February 15, 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 19, 2019. In July 2016, the Company acquired and subsequently retired 935,231 shares of j2 Global common stock in connection with the acquisition of Integrated Global Concepts, Inc. As a result of the purchase of j2 Global common stock, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a reduction in the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program by the same amount leaving 1,938,689 shares of j2 Global common stock available for purchase under this program. During the three month period ended March 31, 2018, we repurchased zero shares under this program. Cumulatively at March 31, 2018, 2.1 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $58.6 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).
