Logitech International S.A, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, ("Logitech" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets products that allow people to connect through music, gaming, video, computing, and other digital platforms.
Shares of Logitech International S.A. are listed on both the SIX Swiss Exchange under the trading symbol LOGN and the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the trading symbol LOGI.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
They should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 26, 2017.
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented.
Operating results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018, or any future periods.
Certain amounts from the comparative period in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the condensed consolidated financial statement presentation as of and for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below, there have been no substantial changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements.More than 35 years ago Logitech created products to improve experiences around the PC platform, and now it is designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content (e.g., music, gaming, video), whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
On August 11, 2017 (the "Acquisition Date"), we acquired certain assets and liabilities constituting the ASTRO Gaming business ("ASTRO") from AG Acquisition Corporation for a purchase price of $85.0 million in cash (the "ASTRO Acquisition").
Our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased 22% and 15%, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, due to stronger net sales across all regions.Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors.
•We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders, because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers.
This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results.
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories.
However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited.
Our product categories are characterized by short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology, dynamic consumer demand and evolving industry standards.