fls.txt
Similarly, statements herein that describe TI’s business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
The results for the three-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
We use the two-class method for calculating EPS because the restricted stock units (RSUs) we grant are participating securities containing non-forfeitable rights to receive dividend equivalents.
The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of March 31, 2019.
The carrying value of our long-term debt approximates the fair value as measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs.
The adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of $229 million of lease liabilities with corresponding lease assets as of January 1, 2019.
This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets.
Using this methodology will result in earlier recognition of losses than under the current incurred loss approach, which requires waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of having been incurred.


item2.txt
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
To strengthen this advantage, we are planning our next phase of 300-millimeter capacity expansion as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth.
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
Broadest reach of market channels.
Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
Some of our products generate revenue for decades, which strengthens the return on our investments.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars.
Our first-quarter revenue was $3.59 billion, net income was $1.22 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.26.
In our core businesses, Analog revenue declined 2% and Embedded Processing declined 14% from the same quarter a year ago.
This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter.
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $6.0 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 21, 2017.


