fls.txt



item1.txt
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination.
The Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows for the periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2019, are not audited but reflect all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature and are necessary for a fair statement of the results of the periods shown.
The results for the three- and nine-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
Lease assets represent our right to use underlying assets for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligations to make lease payments over the lease term.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
We have agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 6 million and 4 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, and 7 million and 4 million shares outstanding during the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.


item2.txt
To strengthen this advantage, we are planning our next phase of 300-millimeter capacity expansion as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
•Broadest reach of market channels.
Some of our products generate revenue for decades, which strengthens the return on our investments.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
•All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars.
Revenue decreased 11% from the same quarter a year ago, as most markets weakened further.
Our cash flow from operations of $7.0 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.
This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production.
Over the last 12 months, our dividends represented 48% of free cash flow, underscoring their sustainability.
In September, we announced we would increase our dividend by 17%.
Gross profit of $2.45 billion was down $358 million, or 13%, due to lower revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, gross profit decreased to 64.9% from 65.8%.
Acquisition charges of $79 million were non-cash.
Operating profit was $1.59 billion, or 42.1% of revenue, compared with $1.94 billion, or 45.5% of revenue.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter.
3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, dated April 18, 1985, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) of the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014).
3(b)By-Laws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 12, 2016).


