fls.txt



item1.txt
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
The results for the three- and six-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We have agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 7 million and 5 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the second quarters of 2019 and 2018, and 9 million and 5 million shares outstanding during the first six months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.


item2.txt
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
To strengthen this advantage, we are planning our next phase of 300-millimeter capacity expansion as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth.
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
Broadest reach of market channels.
Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
Some of our products generate revenue for decades, which strengthens the return on our investments.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars.
Our second quarter revenue was $3.67 billion, net income was $1.31 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.36.
Revenue decreased 9% from the same quarter a year ago due to broad-based weakness.
In our core businesses, Analog revenue declined 6% and Embedded Processing declined 16% from the same quarter a year ago.
This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition to open-market purchases, 3,532 shares of common stock were surrendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units.
As of June 30, 2019, this amount consisted of the remaining portion of the $6.0 billion authorized in September 2017 and the $12.0 billion authorized in September 2018.


