fls.txt



item1.txt
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
The revenue information is not necessarily indicative of the geographic area in which the end applications containing our products are ultimately consumed because our products tend to be shipped to the locations where our customers manufacture their products.
Revenue from products shipped into China, including Hong Kong, was $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion in the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $3.3 billion and $3.1 billion in the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Control is considered transferred when title and risk of loss pass, when the customer becomes obligated to pay and, where required, when the customer has accepted the products.
For sales to distributors, payment is due on our standard commercial terms and is not contingent upon resale of the products.
These allowances, which are not material, generally include adjustments for pricing arrangements, product returns and incentives.
The length of time between invoicing and payment is not significant under any of our payment terms.
We monitor collectability of accounts receivable primarily through review of accounts receivable aging.
We recognize shipping fees, if any, received from customers in revenue.
We include shipping and handling costs in COR.
The majority of our customers pay these fees directly to third parties.


item2.txt
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
Broadest reach of market channels.
Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
Our second-quarter revenue was $4.02 billion, net income was $1.41 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.40.
EPS included a 3 cent discrete tax benefit not in our original guidance.
This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production.
We continue to expect our ongoing annual operating tax rate to be about 20 percent in 2018 and 16 percent starting in 2019.
Revenue of $4.02 billion increased $324 million, or 9 percent, due to higher revenue from Analog and Embedded Processing.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.


