fls.txt



item1.txt
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
Revenue from products shipped into China, including Hong Kong, was $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion in the third quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $5.3 billion and $4.9 billion in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
The Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows for the periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018, are not audited but reflect all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature and are necessary for a fair statement of the results of the periods shown.
The results for the three- and nine-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
We have a variety of types of contracts with our customers and distributors.
These allowances, which are not material, generally include adjustments for pricing arrangements, product returns and incentives.
The length of time between invoicing and payment is not significant under any of our payment terms.
When collection is at risk, we assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, record a charge in the period such determination is made.
We include shipping and handling costs in COR.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 4 million and 5 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the third quarters of 2018 and 2017, and 4 million and 6 million shares outstanding during the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share for these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.


item2.txt
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
Broadest reach of market channels.
Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
Our third-quarter revenue was $4.26 billion, net income was $1.57 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.58.
We continue to expect our ongoing annual operating tax rate to be about 20 percent in 2018 and about 16 percent starting in 2019.
Revenue of $4.26 billion increased $145 million, or 4 percent, due to higher revenue from Analog, partially offset by lower revenue from Embedded Processing.
Gross profit of $2.80 billion was up $148 million, or 6 percent, primarily due to higher revenue.
Acquisition charges of $80 million were non-cash.
Operating profit was $1.94 billion, or 45.5 percent of revenue, compared with $1.79 billion, or 43.4 percent of revenue.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.


