fls.txt



item1.txt
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
The revenue information is not necessarily indicative of the geographic area in which the end applications containing our products are ultimately consumed because our products tend to be shipped to the locations where our customers manufacture their products.
The results for the three-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
Until the products are pulled for use or sale by the customer or distributor, we retain control over the products’ disposition, including the right to pull back or relocate the products.
We monitor collectability of accounts receivable primarily through review of accounts receivable aging.
We recognize shipping fees, if any, received from customers in revenue.
The majority of our customers pay these fees directly to third parties.
The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of March 31, 2018.
The carrying value of our long-term debt approximates the fair value as measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs.
We recognized an increase to opening retained earnings of $206 million, net of taxes, as of January 1, 2018, due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to our fixed payment patent licensing agreements that were not completed as of the adoption date.
Occasionally, as of the end of a reporting period, some of the performance obligations associated with contracts will have been unsatisfied or only partially satisfied.
In accordance with the practical expedients available in the guidance, we do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less.
For royalty income from licensing our patent portfolios, income is allocated to performance obligations that have not yet been satisfied.


item2.txt
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
Broadest reach of market channels.
Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
Our first-quarter revenue was $3.79 billion, net income was $1.37 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.35.
Earnings per share include 14 cents in tax-related benefits not in our original guidance.
Demand for our Analog and Embedded Processing products continued to be strong in the industrial and automotive markets.
Our cash flow from operations of $5.7 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.


