ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our future financial performance and business plans, the adequacy of our liquidity and capital resources, the continued payment of quarterly dividends, the timing of revenue recognition, and are described more completely in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industry and markets in which we operate, and management’s beliefs and assumptions.
In addition, other written or oral statements that constitute forward-looking statements may be made by us or on our behalf.
Words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “may,” “target,” “strategy,” “is intended to,” “project,” “guidance,” “likely,” “usually,” or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
Important factors that could cause actual future activities and results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements include, among others, variation in demand for our products and services, reliance on third party relationships, reliance on key personnel, the inherent risks associated with international operations and the continued uncertainties in the global economy, our continued effort to market and sell both domestically and internationally, foreign currency exchange rates, the potential legal and financial liabilities and reputation damage due to cyber-attacks and security breaches, and management of our growth.
These risks and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements are described more completely in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 as well as other filings we make with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements and there are no assurances that the results contained in such statements will be achieved.
Although new information, future events, or risks may cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable law, we do not undertake and specifically disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements whether as the result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
We develop, market, license, and support enterprise software applications that help organizations transform the way they engage with their customers and process and complete work across their enterprise.
We license our no-code Pega Platform™ for rapid application development to clients that wish to build and extend their own business applications.
Our cloud-architected portfolio of customer engagement and digital process automation applications leverages artificial intelligence (“AI”), case management, and robotic automation technology, built on our unified no-code Pega Platform, empowering businesses to quickly design, extend, and scale their enterprise applications to meet strategic business needs.
Our target clients are Global 3000 organizations and government agencies that require applications to differentiate themselves in the markets they serve.
Our applications achieve and facilitate differentiation by increasing business agility, driving growth, improving productivity, attracting and retaining customers, and reducing risk.
We deliver applications tailored to our clients’ specific industry needs.
Performance metrics
We utilize a number of different performance measures in analyzing and assessing our overall performance, making operating decisions, and forecasting and planning for future periods.
Annual Contract Value (“ACV”) (1)
The change in ACV measures the growth and predictability of future cash flows from Pega cloud and client cloud committed arrangements as of the end of the particular reporting period.
Remaining performance obligations
The above amounts include contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
•“Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Judgments” in Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”; and
•Note 2.
“Significant Accounting Policies” in Item 8.
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.
There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Revenue
Our license revenue is derived from sales of our applications and Pega Platform.
Our cloud revenue is derived from our hosted Pega Platform and software applications.
We expect our revenue mix to continue to shift in favor of our subscription offerings, particularly cloud arrangements, which could result in slower total revenue growth in the near term.
Revenue from cloud arrangements is generally recognized over the service period, while revenue from term and perpetual license arrangements is generally recognized upfront when the license rights become effective.
Subscription revenue
The decrease in term license revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to lower average revenue per arrangement.
The increase in cloud revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 reflects the shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements from other types of arrangements.
The increase in maintenance revenue was primarily due to the continued growth in the aggregate value of the installed base of our software and strong renewal rates in excess of 90%.
Perpetual license
The decrease in perpetual license revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 reflects the shift in client preferences in favor of our cloud offerings and away from perpetual license arrangements.
Consulting
Our consulting revenue fluctuates depending upon the mix of new implementation projects we perform as compared to those performed by our enabled clients or led by our partners.
The decrease in consulting revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in billable hours.
Gross profit
The recent shift in our revenue mix toward cloud arrangements has resulted in slower total gross profit growth as our cloud business continues to grow and scale.
Revenue from cloud arrangements is generally recognized over the service period, while revenue from term and perpetual license arrangements is generally recognized upfront when the license rights become effective.
The decrease in total gross profit in the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to the decrease in term and perpetual license revenue reflecting the shift in client preferences toward our cloud offerings.
The decrease in total gross profit percent in the three months ended March 31, 2019 was driven by a shift in favor of cloud arrangements, which are lower margin than our term and perpetual license revenue streams.
The increase in cloud gross profit percent was driven by cost efficiency gains as our cloud business continues to grow and scale.
The decrease in consulting gross profit percent was driven by a decrease in billable hours as consulting resources were transitioning to new projects after completing a large project which began in the second half of 2016 and an increase in consulting resource availability in Europe as we continue growing and leveraging our partner network.
Operating expenses
Selling and marketing
The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $17.7 million, attributable to increased headcount, and an increase of $4.5 million in deferred contract commission amortization.
The increase in headcount reflects our efforts to increase our sales capacity to deepen relationships with existing clients and target new accounts.
Research and development
The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $2.1 million, attributable to an increase in headcount, and an increase of $1.6 million in cloud hosting expenses as we expand our cloud-focused research and development activities.
General and administrative
The decrease in the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in compensation and benefits of $1.2 million, due to a decrease in equity compensation, and a decrease of $1.9 million in legal and other professional services fees.
Despite the headcount increase, associated compensation and benefits did not increase because these costs are primarily allocated to other operating expense areas.
Stock-based compensation
The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to the increased value of our annual periodic equity awards granted in March 2019 and 2018.
These awards generally have a five-year vesting schedule.
Non-operating (expense) income, net
The change in foreign currency transaction loss was primarily due to unrealized losses on foreign currency denominated cash and receivables of our U.K subsidiary due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as the British Pound strengthened against the Euro and U.S. dollar.
Benefit from income taxes
The inclusion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation in the provision for income taxes has increased the variability of the effective tax rates in recent periods.
This fluctuation may continue in future periods, as the amount of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation awards varies depending on our future stock price in relation to the fair value of awards, the timing of RSU vestings, the exercise behavior of our stock option holders, and the total value of future grants of stock-based compensation awards.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company’s effective income tax rate changed primarily due to the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) and Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax (“BEAT”) provisions of the Tax Reform Act.
The Company’s effective income tax rate was also affected by excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, an increase in U.S. research and development tax credits, and a decrease in uncertain tax positions as a result of the lapse of the statute of limitations on certain foreign reserves.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations, quarterly cash dividends, and stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months.
If it became necessary to repatriate foreign funds, we may be required to pay U.S. state and local taxes, as well as foreign taxes, upon repatriation.
Due to the complexity of income tax laws and regulations, and the effects of the Tax Reform Act, it is impracticable to estimate the amount of taxes we would have to pay.
Cash provided by operating activities
As client preferences continue to shift in favor of cloud arrangements, we could continue to experience slower operating cash flow growth in the near term.
Cash from cloud arrangements is generally collected throughout the service period of three to five years, while cash from perpetual license arrangements is generally collected upfront, shortly after the license rights become effective.
The primary driver during the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $78.1 million in cash generated from client receivables, largely due to cash collections and the timing of billings.
Cash used in investing activities
Cash used in investing activities is primarily driven by the timing of investment maturities and purchases of new investments.
Cash used in financing activities
We used cash primarily for repurchases of our common stock under our publicly announced stock repurchase programs, stock repurchases for tax withholdings for the net settlement of our equity awards, and the payment of our quarterly dividend.
Stock repurchase program (1)
Common stock repurchases
Dividends
It is our current intention to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share, however, the Board of Directors may terminate or modify the dividend program at any time without prior notice.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
The following table sets forth information regarding our repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS
+ Indicates that the exhibit is being furnished with this report and is not filed as a part of it.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
