ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our future financial performance and business plans, the adequacy of our liquidity and capital resources, the continued payment of quarterly dividends, and the timing of revenue recognition are described more completely in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.  



These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industry and markets in which we operate, and management’s beliefs and assumptions. In addition, other written or oral statements that constitute forward-looking statements may be made by us or on our behalf. Words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “may,” “target,” “strategy,” “is intended to,” “project,” “guidance,” “likely,” “usually,” or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.  



These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Important factors that could cause actual future activities and results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements include, among others, variation in demand for our products and services; reliance on third party relationships; our beliefs and the timing of the completion of our analysis regarding the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, including its impact on income tax expense and deferred tax assets; the inherent risks associated with international operations and the continued uncertainties in the global economy; our continued effort to market and sell both domestically and internationally; foreign currency exchange rates; the financial impact of any future acquisitions; the potential legal and financial liabilities and reputation damage due to cyber-attacks and security breaches; and management of our growth. These risks and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements are described more completely in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 as well as other filings we make with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  



Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements and there are no assurances that the results contained in such statements will be achieved. Although subsequent events may cause our view to change, except as required by applicable law, we do not undertake and specifically disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements whether as the result of new information, future events, or otherwise.  



BUSINESS OVERVIEW  



We develop, market, license, and support software applications for customer engagement and digital process automation, in addition to licensing our Pega Platform application development product for clients that wish to build and extend their own applications. The Pega Platform and applications help connect enterprises to their customers in real-time across channels, streamline business operations, and adapt to meet changing requirements.  



Our clients include Global 3000 companies and government agencies that seek to manage complex enterprise systems and customer service issues with greater agility and cost-effectiveness. Our strategy is to sell a client a series of licenses, each focused on a specific purpose or area of operations in support of longer term enterprise-wide digital transformation initiatives.  



Performance metrics  









Subscription revenue reflects client arrangements (term license, cloud, and maintenance) which may be subject to a renewal.  





Table of Contents 



Annual Contract Value (“ACV”)(1)  



The change in ACV measures the growth and predictability of future cash flows from committed term, cloud, and maintenance arrangements as of the end of the particular reporting period.  









   •    



the sum of the annual value of each term and cloud contract in effect on such date, with the annual value of a term or cloud contract being equal to the total value of the contract divided by the total number of years of the contract.  



   •    



maintenance revenue reported for the quarter ended on such date, multiplied by four.  



Remaining performance obligations (formerly reported as “committed not yet recognized revenue”)  







CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICES  



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial reporting. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, knowledge of current conditions, and expectations of what could occur in the future given available information.  





Table of Contents 





   •    



“Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Judgments” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2. “Significant Accounting Policies” in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” both of which are contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.  



   •    



Note 2. “New Accounting Pronouncements”, Note 4. “Receivables, Contract Assets, and Deferred Revenue”, and Note 9. “Revenue” contained in Item 1. “Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2018.  



Except as described below, there have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.  



Revenue  



We account for revenue in accordance with ASC 606. Our revenue recognition policies require us to make significant judgments and estimates.  



Our clients’ contracts with us typically contain promises by us to provide multiple products and services. Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract. We allocate the transaction price to the distinct performance obligations based on relative stand-alone selling price. We estimate stand-alone selling price based on the prices charged to clients, or by using information such as market conditions and other observable inputs. However, the selling price of our software licenses and cloud performance obligations are highly variable. Thus, we estimate stand-alone selling price for software licenses and cloud performance obligations using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price minus the stand-alone selling price of other performance obligations promised in the contract.  



In applying our revenue recognition policy, we must determine which portions of our revenue are recognized in the current period and which portions must be deferred and recognized in future periods. We analyze various factors including, but not limited to, the selling price of undelivered services when sold on a stand-alone basis, our pricing policies, and contractual terms and conditions to help us make such judgments about revenue recognition. Changes in judgment on any of these factors could materially impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized in a given period.  



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  







Revenue  







Subscription revenue reflects client arrangements (term license, cloud, and maintenance) which may be subject to a renewal.  



Our license revenue is primarily derived from sales of our applications and Pega Platform. Our cloud revenue is derived from our hosted Pega Platform and software applications. Our consulting revenue is primarily related to new license implementations.  





Table of Contents 



We expect our revenue mix to continue to shift in favor of our subscription offerings, particularly cloud arrangements, which could result in slower total revenue growth in the near term. Revenue from cloud arrangements is generally recognized over time throughout the service period, while revenue from license arrangements is generally recognized upfront when the license rights become effective.  



Subscription revenue  



The decrease in term license revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to $17 million of revenue recognized in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from a large term license renewal. The decrease in term license revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to $35.3 million of revenue recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2017 from a large term license renewal.  



The increases in cloud revenue in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 reflect the shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements from other types of arrangements.  



The increases in maintenance revenue were primarily due to the continued growth in the aggregate value of the installed base of our software and strong renewal rates in excess of 90%.  



Perpetual license  



The increase in perpetual license revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to revenue recognized from license rights which became effective in the current period from perpetual arrangements executed in prior periods, primarily the three months ended June 30, 2018. The decrease in perpetual license revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 reflects the shift in client preferences away from perpetual license arrangements.  



Consulting  



Our consulting revenue fluctuates depending upon the mix of new implementation projects we perform as compared to those performed by our enabled clients or led by our partners.  



The increase in consulting revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to higher billable hours driven by an increase in the number of projects performed.  



Gross profit  





The increase in total gross profit in the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in maintenance revenue, due to growth in the aggregate value of the installed base of our software, and an increase in cloud revenue, due to a shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements from other types of arrangements.  



The decrease in total gross profit in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to $35.3 million of revenue recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2017 from a large term license renewal and the decrease in perpetual license revenue reflecting the shift in client preferences toward our cloud offerings, partially offset by the margin growth in our maintenance and cloud revenue streams. The current shift in our revenue mix toward cloud arrangements may result in slower total gross profit growth in the near term as our cloud business continues to grow and scale.  



Maintenance and cloud gross profit percent  



The increases in maintenance gross profit percent in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were driven by decreases of $0.3 million and $1.5 million in compensation and benefits due to decreased headcount and a decrease in client support expenses as we transferred resources to provide dedicated support to our growing cloud business.  



The increases in cloud gross profit percent in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were primarily due to continued growth and scale in our cloud business, partially offset by an increase in client support expenses as we expanded our cloud client support function to sustain our growing cloud business.  





Table of Contents 



Consulting gross profit percent  



The decreases in consulting gross profit percent in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were driven primarily by increases in compensation and benefits, lower utilization rates, and the impact of our policy introduced late in the three months ended June 30, 2017 to offer our web-based training free of charge to users which reduced training revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.  



Operating expenses  



Selling and marketing  





Includes compensation, benefits, and other headcount-related expenses associated with our selling and marketing personnel as well as advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and the amortization of client-related intangibles.  



The increases in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $15.2 million and $40.6 million, as a result of increased headcount, increased deferred contract commission costs amortization of $1.2 million and $3.3 million, and an increase in marketing programs in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of $3.1 million. The increase in headcount reflects our efforts to increase our sales capacity to deepen relationships with existing clients and target new accounts.  



Research and development  





Includes compensation, benefits, contracted services, and other headcount-related expenses associated with the creation and development of our products, as well as enhancements and design changes to existing products and the integration of acquired technologies.  



The increases in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $4 million and $9.5 million, attributable to increased headcount and the expansion of our application development team to support the continued development of our expanding suite of software.  



General and administrative  





Includes compensation, benefits, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, corporate governance, and other administrative headcount. They also include accounting, legal, and other professional consulting and administrative fees. The general and administrative headcount includes employees in information technology and corporate services departments, whose costs are partially allocated to other operating expense areas.  



The decrease in the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in compensation and benefits of $1.2 million due to decreased headcount, reflecting the realignment of contract negotiation and product development resources to augment our selling and marketing and research and development functions.  





Table of Contents 



The increase in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to an increase of $2.1 million in legal and tax fees partially offset by a decrease of $1.7 million in compensation and benefits, due to decreased headcount reflecting the realignment of contract negotiation and product development resources to augment our selling and marketing and research and development functions.  



Stock-based compensation  





The increase in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to the increased value of our annual periodic equity awards granted in March 2018 and 2017. These awards generally have a five-year vesting schedule.  



Non-operating income (expense), net  







The change in foreign currency transaction gain (loss) was primarily due to unrealized gains on foreign currency denominated cash and receivables.  



The change in interest income, net was primarily due to an increase in prevailing interest rates and an increase in the size of our holdings in marketable securities.  



Benefit from income taxes  







   •    



excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 of $15.1 million and $22.4 million were disproportionately greater than (loss) income before benefit from income taxes;  



   •    



a decrease in the estimated annual effective income tax rate primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. statutory federal tax rate from 35% to 21% pursuant to the Tax Reform Act;  



   •    



an increase in utilization of U.S. research and development tax credits; and  



   •    



a decrease in uncertain tax provisions as a result of the settlement of a foreign tax audit for 2012 through 2015.  



The inclusion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation in the provision for income taxes has increased the variability of the effective tax rates in recent periods. This fluctuation may continue in future periods, as the amount of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation awards varies depending on our future stock price in relation to the fair value of awards, the timing of RSU vestings, exercise behavior of our stock option holders, and the total value of future grants of stock-based compensation awards.  





Table of Contents 



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  





We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations, quarterly cash dividends, and stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months.  



If it became necessary to repatriate foreign funds, we may be required to pay U.S. state and local taxes, as well as foreign taxes, upon repatriation. Due to the complexity of income tax laws and regulations, and the effects of the Tax Reform Act, it is impracticable to estimate the amount of taxes we would have to pay.  



Cash provided by operating activities  



As client preferences continue to shift in favor of cloud arrangements, we could experience slower operating cash flow growth in the near term. Cash from cloud arrangements is generally collected throughout the service period, while cash from perpetual license arrangements is generally collected upfront, shortly after the license rights become effective.  



The primary driver during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $57.6 million in cash generated from receivables and contract assets, largely due to cash collections and the timing of billings.  



The primary driver during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was net income of $58 million and $36.8 million in cash generated from receivables and contract assets, largely due to cash collections and the timing of billings.  



Cash used in investing activities  



Cash used in investing activities is primarily driven by the timing of investment maturities and purchases of new investments.  



Cash used in financing activities  



We used cash primarily for repurchases of our common stock under our publicly announced stock repurchase programs, stock repurchases for tax withholdings for the net settlement of our equity awards, and the payment of our quarterly dividend.  











Purchases under these programs have been made on the open market.  





Table of Contents 



Common stock repurchases  







Represents activity under our publicly announced stock repurchase programs.  





During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, instead of receiving cash from the equity holders, we withheld shares with a value of $28.2 million and $23.7 million for the exercise price of options. These amounts have been excluded from the table above.  



Dividends  





It is our current intention to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share, however, the Board of Directors may terminate or modify the dividend program at any time without prior notice.  



 ITEM 2.  



UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS  



The following table sets forth information regarding our repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended September 30, 2018.  









 ITEM 6.  



EXHIBITS  





 + Indicates that the exhibit is being furnished with this report and is not filed as a part of it.  



 ++ Management contracts and compensatory plan or arrangements  





Table of Contents 



SIGNATURE  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  





