ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our future financial performance and business plans, the adequacy of our liquidity and capital resources, the continued payment of quarterly dividends, and the timing of revenue recognition and are described more completely in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industry and markets in which we operate, and management’s beliefs and assumptions.
In addition, other written or oral statements that constitute forward-looking statements may be made by us or on our behalf.
Words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “may,” “target,” “strategy,” “is intended to,” “project,” “guidance,” “likely,” “usually,” or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
Important factors that could cause actual future activities and results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements include, among others, variation in demand for our products and services and the difficulty in predicting factors affecting the timing of license revenue recognition; reliance on third party relationships; our beliefs and the timing of the completion of our analysis regarding the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, including its impact on income tax expense and deferred tax assets; the inherent risks associated with international operations and the continued uncertainties in the global economy; our continued effort to market and sell both domestically and internationally; foreign currency exchange rates; the financial impact of any future acquisitions; the potential legal and financial liabilities and reputation damage due to cyber-attacks and security breaches; and management of our growth.
These risks, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements, are described more completely in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 as well as other filings we make with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements and there are no assurances that the matters contained in such statements will be achieved.
Although subsequent events may cause our view to change, except as required by applicable law, we do not undertake and specifically disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements whether as the result of new information, future events or otherwise.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
We develop, market, license, and support software applications for customer engagement and digital process automation, in addition to licensing our Pega Platform application development product for clients that wish to build and extend their own applications.
The Pega Platform and applications help connect enterprises to their customers in real-time across channels, streamline business operations, and adapt to meet changing requirements.
Our clients include Global 3000 companies and government agencies that seek to manage complex enterprise systems and customer service issues with greater agility and cost-effectiveness.
Our strategy is to sell a client a series of licenses, each focused on a specific purpose or area of operations in support of longer term enterprise-wide digital transformation initiatives.
Our license revenue is primarily derived from sales of our applications and Pega Platform.
Our cloud revenue is derived from our hosted software application and Pega Platform environments.
Our consulting revenue is primarily related to new license implementations.
Table of Contents
Financial and Performance Metrics
We adopted the new revenue recognition standard (“ASC 606”) effective January 1, 2018 using the full retrospective method.
See Note 2.
“New Accounting Pronouncements” included in Item 1.
“Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information.
The decrease in total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a large term license arrangement recognized in revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2017 and a shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements.
Cloud arrangements are generally recognized in revenue over the term of the cloud contract, as compared to other arrangements, which are generally recognized in revenue on the contract effective date.
Annual Contract Value (“ACV”)(1)
The change in ACV measures the growth and predictability of future cash flows from committed term, cloud, and maintenance arrangements as of the end of the particular reporting period.
   •   The sum of the annual value of each term and cloud contract in effect on such date, with the annual value of a term or cloud contract being equal to the total value of the contract divided by the total number of years of the contract.
   •   Maintenance revenue reported for the quarter ended on such date, multiplied by four.
Table of Contents
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S.) and the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial reporting.
The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, knowledge of current conditions, and expectations of what could occur in the future given available information.
Revenue
We account for revenue in accordance with ASC 606.
Our revenue recognition policies require us to make significant judgments and estimates.
Our clients’ contracts typically contain promises to transfer multiple products and services.
Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract.
We allocate the transaction price to the distinct performance obligations based on relative stand-alone selling price.
We estimate stand-alone selling price based on the prices charged to clients, or by using information such as market conditions and other observable inputs.
However, the selling price of our software licenses and cloud performance obligations are highly variable.
Thus, we estimate stand-alone selling price for software licenses and cloud performance obligations using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price minus the stand-alone selling price of other performance obligations promised in the contract.
In applying our revenue recognition policy, we must determine which portions of our revenue are recognized currently and which portions must be deferred and recognized in future periods.
We analyze various factors including, but not limited to, the selling price of undelivered services when sold on a stand-alone basis, our pricing policies, and contractual terms and conditions in helping us to make such judgments about revenue recognition.
Changes in judgment on any of these factors could materially impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized in a given period.
Deferred Contract Costs
Sales incentives paid by us are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a client.
These costs are deferred and then amortized over the period of benefit, which is on average five years.
We determined the period of benefit by taking into consideration our client contracts, our technology, and other factors.
Except as described above, there have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
   •   “Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Judgments” in Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2.
“Significant Accounting Policies” in Item 8.
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” both of which are contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
   •   Note 2.
“New Accounting Pronouncements”, Note 4.
“Receivables, Contract Assets, and Deferred Revenue”, and Note 9.
“Revenue” contained in Item 1.
“Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements” of this Quarterly Reporting on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Table of Contents
Revenue
Software license
The decrease in perpetual license revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in the value of perpetual arrangements executed in the three months ended March 31, 2018 driven primarily by a shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements.
The decrease in term license revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a large term license arrangement recognized in revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2017 and a shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements.
Maintenance
The increase in maintenance revenue was primarily due to the continued growth in the aggregate value of the installed base of our software and strong renewal rates significantly in excess of 90%.
Services
The increase in cloud revenue was primarily due to the continued growth of our cloud client base driven by a shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements.
The increase in consulting and training revenue was primarily due to higher billable hours during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Our consulting and training revenue may fluctuate in future periods depending on the mix of new implementation projects we perform as compared to those performed by our enabled clients or led by our partners.
Gross profit
Table of Contents
The decrease in total gross profit in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a large term license arrangement recognized in revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Additionally we have experienced a shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements, which are generally recognized in revenue over the term of the cloud contract, as compared to other arrangements, which are generally recognized in revenue on the contract effective date.
The increase in maintenance gross profit percent in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was driven by a $0.5 million decrease in client support expenses as we transferred client support resources to support our growing cloud business.
The increase in cloud gross profit percent in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was driven by cost efficiency gains as our cloud business continues to grow and scale, partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in client support expenses as we expanded our cloud client support function to sustain our growing cloud business.
Operating expenses
Selling and marketing
Selling and marketing expenses include compensation, benefits, and other headcount-related expenses associated with our selling and marketing personnel as well as advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs.
Selling and marketing expenses also include the amortization of client-related intangibles.
The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $11.6 million, driven by increased headcount and equity compensation, amortization of deferred commissions, increased spending on event marketing and digital advertising, and the expenses associated with assigning contract negotiation resources to drive efficiencies in the sales process in support of our long-term growth.
The increase in headcount reflects our efforts to increase our sales capacity to target new accounts in existing industries, as well as to expand coverage in new industries and geographies, and to increase the number of sales opportunities.
Research and development
Research and development expenses include compensation, benefits, contracted services, and other headcount-related expenses associated with the creation and development of our products, as well as enhancements and design changes to existing products and the integration of acquired technologies.
The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $4.6 million attributable to increased headcount, and the expansion of our application development team to support the continued development of our software.
Table of Contents
General and administrative
General and administrative expenses include compensation, benefits, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, corporate governance, and other administrative headcount.
They also include accounting, legal, and other professional consulting and administrative fees.
The general and administrative headcount includes employees in human resources, information technology, and corporate services departments, whose costs are partially allocated to other operating expense areas.
The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $1.1 million, attributable to equity compensation, and an increase of $1 million in legal fees.
The decrease in headcount reflects the realignment of contract negotiation and product development resources to augment our selling and marketing and research development functions, respectively.
Stock-based compensation
The increase was primarily due to the increased value of our annual periodic equity awards granted in March 2018 and 2017.
These awards generally have a five-year vesting schedule.
Table of Contents
   •   a decrease in the estimated annual effective income tax rate primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. statutory federal tax rate from 35% to 21% pursuant to the Tax Reform Act; and
   •   an increase in U.S. research and development tax credits.
The inclusion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation as a component of the provision for income taxes has increased the volatility of the effective tax rates in recent periods, and may continue to do so in future periods, as the amount of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation awards varies depending on our future stock price in relation to the fair value of awards, the timing of RSU vestings, exercise behavior of our stock option holders, and the total value of future grants of stock-based compensation awards.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations, quarterly cash dividends, and stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months.
If it became necessary to repatriate foreign funds, we may be required to pay U.S. state and local taxes, as well as foreign taxes, upon repatriation.
Due to the complexity of the income tax laws and the effects of the Tax Reform Act, it is impracticable to estimate the amount of taxes we would have to pay.
Cash provided by operating activities
The primary drivers during the three months ended March 31, 2018 were net income of $12.2 million and $49.6 million from receivables and contract assets, largely due to increased cash collections and the timing of billings.
The primary driver during the three months ended March 31, 2017 was net income of $53.0 million.
Cash used in investing activities
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we purchased investments of $35.2 million and made investments of $2.1 million in property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds received from maturities of investments (including called marketable debt securities) of $6 million.
During the three months ended March 31, 2017, we purchased investments of $3.3 million, partially offset by proceeds received from maturities of investments (including called marketable debt securities) of $2.3 million.
We also invested $2.4 million primarily for leasehold improvements for the build out of additional office space at our Hyderabad, India location.
Table of Contents
Cash used in financing activities
We used cash primarily for repurchases of our common stock under our publicly announced stock repurchase programs, stock repurchases for tax withholdings for the net settlement of our equity awards, and the payment of our quarterly dividend.
Since 2004, our Board of Directors has approved annual stock repurchase programs that have authorized the repurchase in the aggregate of up to $195 million of our common stock.
Purchases under these programs have been made on the open market.
As of March 31, 2018, $159.2 million had been repurchased, $29.2 million remained available for repurchase, and $6.4 million had expired.
Common stock repurchases
   (1)  Represents activity under our publicly announced stock repurchase programs.
   (2)  During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, instead of receiving cash from the equity holders, we withheld shares with a value of $11.2 million and $7.7 million for the exercise price of options.
These amounts have been excluded from the table above.
Dividends
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we paid cash dividends of $2.3 million.
It is our current intention to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share, however, the Board of Directors may terminate or modify this dividend program at any time without prior notice.
 ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
 ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS
 + Indicates that the exhibit is being furnished with this report and is not filed as a part of it.
 ++ Management contracts and compensatory plan or arrangements
Table of Contents
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
