 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2017.
 Effective January 1, 2018 we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No.
2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with customers, or Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 606 using the full retrospective method, as discussed in detail in Note 5.
All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been updated to comply with ASC 606 as discussed in Note 5.
 Certain reclassifications and immaterial revisions have been made to the prior period financial statements to conform to the current-year presentation.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings.
It is expected that assets and liabilities will increase as a result of the adoption of this standard.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows.
 In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”.
The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met.
The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.
  In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP.
The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.
 In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05, “Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (SEC Update), Income Taxes (Topic 740)”.
 In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2018-07, “Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting,” which aligns the measurement and classification guidance for share-based payments to nonemployees with that for employees, with certain exceptions.
It expands the scope of ASC 718 to include share-based payments granted to nonemployees in exchange for goods or services used or consumed in the entity’s own operations and supersedes the guidance in ASC 505-50.
The ASU retains the existing cost attribution guidance, which requires entities to recognize compensation cost for nonemployee awards in the same period and in the same manner (i.e., capitalize or expense) they would if they paid cash for the goods or services, but it moves the guidance to ASC 718.
The guidance also allows nonpublic entities to account for nonemployee awards using certain practical expedients that are already available for employee awards, but the same accounting policies must be used for awards to both employees and nonemployees.
ASU 2018-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance.
 In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-09 – Codification Improvements, which facilitates amendments to a variety of topics to clarify, correct errors in, or make minor improvements to the accounting standards codification.
The effective date of the standard is dependent on the facts and circumstances of each amendment.
Some amendments do not require transition guidance and will be effective upon the issuance of this standard.
We will be required to adopt this standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The net sales from our foreign operations for the first nine months of 2018 were $13.9 million as compared to $14.1 million in the first nine months of 2017.
 Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 using the full retrospective method, which requires us to restate our historical financial information to reflect the adoption as of the earliest reporting period presented.
There was no adjustment to equity as a result of the adoption.
The most significant impact of adopting the standard relates to the determination of whether the Company is acting as a principal or an agent in the sale of third party security software and software that is highly interdependent with support, as well as maintenance, support and other services.
Historically, under the transfer of risk and rewards model of revenue recognition, the Company has accounted for primarily all of its sales on a gross basis.
The new guidance requires the Company to identify performance obligations and assess transfer of control.
While assessing its performance obligations for sales of security software and software subscriptions that are highly interdependent with support, the Company determined that the vendor has ongoing performance obligations with the end customer that are not separately identifiable from the software itself.
The Company also determined that the vendor has ongoing performance obligation for sales of certain third-party maintenance, support and service contracts.
In these instances, the Company has determined that it does not have control and is acting as an agent in the sale.
When acting as an agent in a transaction, the Company accounts for sales on a net basis, with the vendor cost associated with the sale recognized as a reduction of revenue.
 The tables below present historical information adjusted as if the standard had been adopted on January 1, 2017 for all periods presented.
 Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer — A contract with a customer exists when (i) we enter into an enforceable contract with a customer that defines each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred and identifies the payment terms related to these goods or services, (ii) the contract has commercial substance and, (iii) we determine that collection of substantially all consideration for goods or services that are transferred is probable based on the customer’s intent and ability to pay the promised consideration.
All revenue is generated from contracts with customers.
 Identification of the performance obligations in the contract — Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the goods or services that will be transferred to the customer that are capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the goods or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the goods or services is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.
To the extent a contract includes multiple promised goods or services, we apply judgment to determine whether promised goods or services are capable of being distinct in the context of the contract.
 Determination of the transaction price —The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer.
Net sales are recorded net of estimated discounts, rebates, and returns.
Vendor rebates and price protection are recorded when earned as a reduction to cost of sales or merchandise inventory, as applicable.
 Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract — If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price, or SSP, basis.
We determine standalone SSP based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through established standard prices, we use judgement and estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market pricing and pricing related to similar products.
Contracts with a significant financing component are discounted to their present value at contract inception and accreted up to the expected payment amounts.
 Hardware and software product - Hardware product consists of sales of hardware manufactured by third parties.
Hardware product is delivered from our warehouse or drop shipped directly from the vendor.
Control is generally deemed to have passed to the customer upon transfer of title and risk of ownership.
  Software product consists of sales of perpetual and term software licenses for products developed by third party vendors, which are distinct from related maintenance and support.
Software licenses are delivered via electronic license keys provided by the vendor to the end user.
Revenue from the sale of software products is recognized on a gross basis, with the selling price to the customer as net sales, and the cost of the related product as cost of sales, upon transfer of control to our customers as the Company is a principal in the transaction.
 Software maintenance and support, commonly known as software assurance or post contract support, consists of software updates and technical support provided by the software vendor to the licensor over a period of time.
separate performance obligation.
In cases where the software maintenance is not distinct from the related software license, it is accounted for as a single performance obligation with the related license.
We utilize judgement in determining whether the maintenance is distinct from the software itself.
This involves considering if the software provides its original intended functionality without the updates, or is dependent on frequent, or continuous updates to maintain its functionality.
 Software - security and highly interdependent with support - Software - security software and software highly interdependent with support consists of sales of security subscriptions and other licensed software products whose functionality is highly interdependent with, and therefore not distinct from, related software maintenance.
Delivery of the software license and related support over time is considered a single performance obligation of the third-party vendor for these products.
The Company is an agent in these transactions, with revenue being recorded on a net basis when its performance obligation of processing a valid order between the supplier and customer contracting for the services is complete.
 Maintenance, support and other services revenue - Maintenance, support and other services revenue consists of third-party post-contract support that is not critical or essential to the core functionality of the related licensed software, and, to a lesser extent, from third-party professional services, software as a service, and cloud subscriptions.
 Contract balances -Accounts receivable is recorded at the invoiced amount, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and returns.
Payment terms on invoiced amounts are typically 30-75 days.
The balance of accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts and returns, as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2018 is presented in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In subsequent periods, the accounts receivable is increased to the amounts due and payable by the customers through the accretion of interest income on the unpaid accounts receivable due in future years.
The amounts due under these long-term accounts receivable due within one year are reclassified to the current portion of accounts receivable and are shown net of reserves.
Sales where we are acting as an agent are recognized on a net basis at the date our performance obligations are complete.
 The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term accounts receivable and accounts payable approximated fair value at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 because of the relative short maturity of these instruments.
 Accounts Receivable – From time to time, we sell accounts receivable to a financial institution on a non-recourse basis.
The receivables are recorded at their discounted fair value at September 30 ,2018.
 For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded depreciation and amortization expense of $0.4 million and $0.4 million respectively, which is included in general and administrative expense.
The Credit Facility, which will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, matures on August 31, 2020, at which time the Company must pay all outstanding principal of all outstanding loans plus all accrued and unpaid interest, and any, fees, costs and expenses.
In addition, the Company will pay regular monthly payments of all accrued and unpaid interest.
The interest rate for any borrowings under the Credit Facility is subject to change from time to time based on the changes in the LIBOR Rate, as defined in the Loan Agreement (the “Index”).
The Index was 2.26% at September 30, 2018.
Interest on the unpaid principal balance of the Note will be calculated using a rate of 1.50 percentage points over the Index.
If the Index becomes unavailable during the term of the Credit Facility, interest will be based upon the Prime Rate (as defined in the Loan Agreement) after notifying the Company.
 At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility.
 Our basic and diluted earnings per share are computed using the two-class method.
Non-vested restricted stock awards that include non-forfeitable rights to dividends are considered participating securities.
Per share amounts are computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted average shares outstanding during each period.
 The Company had two major vendors that accounted for 25.1% and 14.8%, respectively, of total purchases during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 22.6% and 15.2% of total purchases for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
The Company had two major vendors that accounted for 27.0% and 14.1%, respectively, of total purchases during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, and 27.9% and 14.1% of total purchases for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
The Company had two major customers that accounted for 27.5% and 16.5%, respectively, of its net sales during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and 37.3%, and 15.6% of total net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
These same customers accounted for 40.6% and 8.8% respectively, of total net accounts receivable as of September 30, 2018.
Two customers accounted for 28.6% and 15.1% of total net accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.
The Company had two major customers that accounted for 20.3% and 17.9%, respectively, of its total net sales during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, and 20.8%, and 17.2% of total net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
 The effective tax rate for the nine and three months ended September 30, 2018 was 35.4% and 24.2%, compared to 32.2% and 33.3%, for the same periods last year.
The Company recorded a $0.4 million tax benefit related to separation expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 which were accounted for as a discrete item, resulting in a 18% effective tax benefit rate on that item.
The Company also recorded an adjustment to its accrual for potential liabilities for state income taxes in states which have enacted economic nexus statutes of $0.2 during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The effective tax rate for ordinary income was 24.2% for the three and nine month ended September 30, 2018.
 The 2012 Stock-Based Compensation Plan (the “2012 Plan”) authorizes the grant of Stock Options, Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Stock Bonuses and other equity-based awards.
The total number of shares of Common Stock initially available for award under the 2012 Plan was 600,000 which was increased to 1,000,000 shares by shareholder approval at the Company’s 2018 Annual Meeting in June 2018.
 During 2017, the Company granted a total of 87,076 shares of Restricted Stock to officers and employees.
These shares of Restricted Stock vest between twelve and twenty equal quarterly installments.
In 2017, a total of 22,694 shares of Restricted Stock were forfeited as a result of officers and employees terminating employment with the Company.
 During 2018, the Company granted a total of 123,000 shares of Restricted Stock to officers, employees and directors.
These shares of Restricted Stock vest between one and twenty equal quarterly installments.
 As of September 30, 2018, there is approximately $1.6 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements.
The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.2 years.
 For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized share-based compensation cost of $2.6 million and $1.0 million respectively.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, $1.7 million of stock compensation expense, related to accelerated vesting of shares upon the resignation of the Company’s former Chief Executive Officer, was included in separation expense.
All other share-based compensation is included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
The internal organization used by the public company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) to assess performance and allocate resources determines the basis for reportable operating segments.
The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide.
The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the United States and Canada.
 As permitted by FASB ASC Topic 280, the Company has utilized the aggregation criteria in combining its operations in Canada with the domestic segments as the Canadian operations provide the same products and services to similar clients and are considered together when the Company’s CODM decides how to allocate resources.
 On May 11, 2018, the Company entered into a Separation and Release Agreement (the “Separation Agreement”) with Simon Nynens upon his resignation from the Company.
The Separation Agreement supersedes and replaces the Employment Agreement, dated January 12, 2006, between Mr. Nynens and the Company.
  Mr. Nynens is entitled to receive (a) a cash payment of $0.7 million, payable in 12 consecutive, equal monthly installments on the fifteenth day of each month, commencing June 15, 2018; provided that the monthly payments will be delayed until the earlier to occur of Mr. Nynens’ death or November 19, 2018 (the “Delay Period”), and upon the expiration of the Delay Period, all payments that were delayed will be paid in a lump sum, (b) a one-time, lump sum cash payment of $0.03 million (Mr. Nynens current monthly salary) payable within 30 days after the Separation Date so long as Mr. Nynens performs certain transition services to the extent reasonably requested by the Company; and (c) payment of accrued vacation equal to $0.04 million, (ii) all stock options and stock awards issued to Mr. Nynens, consisting solely of 109,084 shares of restricted common stock issued under the 2012 Stock-Based Compensation Plan, will fully vest and become immediately exercisable and remain exercisable through their original terms.
 The Company recorded expenses of $2.4 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 related to the Separation Agreement consisting of $1.7 million for accelerated vesting of restricted stock grants and $0.8 million in other cash payments to be made over during the next twelve months.
