As required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Exchange Act, our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures”, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this report.
This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of various members of our management, including our Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer), Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer), and Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (principal accounting officer).
 Based on the material weaknesses described below, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
   ·    Hire and train appropriate personnel or professionals sufficient to manage the complexity, timing, and ever changing nature of our business and financial reporting requirements.
   ·    Retain and evaluate the qualifications and performance of experts who are engaged to assist in the evaluation and adoption of accounting and tax matters where appropriate.
The Company has retained an accounting firm to advise with state income tax compliance requirements.
   ·    Ensure controls are properly designed and documented to address risks and train key process owners and other relevant personnel to perform timely reconciliations with appropriate documentation and review procedures.
The Company has retained outside advisors to assist in the documentation of controls and account reconciliation processes and has implemented enhanced procedures related to the review and documentation of account analysis.
The Company is currently testing the performance of these procedures with its outside advisors.
 In January 2018, we implemented certain internal controls over financial reporting in connection with our adoption of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
