 Item 2.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 The Company is organized into two reportable operating segments.
worldwide.
The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the USA and Canada.
 We derive the majority of our net sales though the sale of third party software licenses, maintenance and service agreements.
In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers.
 Dividend Policy and Share Repurchase Program.
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 and $0.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, respectively, and $0.8 million and $1.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017, respectively.
 Stock Volatility.
The technology sector of the United States stock markets is subject to substantial volatility.
 This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
 Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
 The Company operates in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, stock-based compensation, contingencies and litigation.
 The Company believes the following critical accounting policies used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements affect its more significant judgments and estimates.
See Note 5 to the accompanying financial statements for further information.
The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations.
We also use judgement in the allocation of sales proceeds among performance obligations, utilizing observable data such as stand-alone selling prices, or market pricing for similar products and services.
 The Company’s accounts receivable long-term are discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale based on prevailing rates.
In doing so, the Company considers competitive market rates and other factors.
 The Company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-offs may be required.
 The Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets.
In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.
 Under the fair value recognition provision, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
We record the impact of forfeitures when they occur.
Such changes may lead to a significant change in the expense we recognize in connection with share-based payments.
software that is highly interdependent with support, as well as maintenance, support and other services.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings.
The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements.
 In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No.
2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition for accounts receivable.
 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
 In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”.
The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met.
The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.
 In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) – Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, which improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements.
The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP.
The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include net sales, gross margin, adjusted gross billings, gross profit as a percentage of gross billings, net income as a percentage of net sales and net income as a percentage of gross billings.
 We define adjusted gross billings as net sales in accordance with U.S. GAAP, adjusted for the cost of sales related to Software – security and highly interdependent with support and Maintenance, support and other services.
We provided a reconciliation of Adjusted gross billings to net sales, which is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure.
In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate Adjusted gross billings of product and services or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.
 Net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased 6%, or $2.5 million, to $40.6 million, compared to $38.1 million for the same period in 2017, as increased net sales in our Lifeboat Distribution segment were offset in part by decreased extended payment sales in our TechXtend segment.
Adjusted gross billings for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased 11%, or $12.3 million, to $125.1 million, compared to $112.8 million for the same period in 2017.
Adjusted gross billings increased at a higher rate than net sales primarily due to a higher percentage of sales being comprised of maintenance and software -security and highly interdependent with support which are recorded on a net basis.
 Lifeboat Distribution segment net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased $3.0 million, or 9% to $36.8 million, compared to $33.8 million for the same period a year earlier.
The increase was due primarily to growth in sales penetration for several of our more significant product lines, as well as the addition of several new product lines.
The increases were partially offset by turnover in some vendor and customer accounts.
Adjusted gross billings for the Lifeboat Distribution segment increased $14.5 million or 14% to $119.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
Adjusted gross billings increased at a faster rate than net sales because of a higher percentage of our sales being derived from maintenance services and subscriptions which are recorded net of cost of sales.
 TechXtend segment net sales decreased $0.5 million or 13% to $3.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, compared to $4.3 million for the prior year.
The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in extended payment term sales compared to the first quarter of 2017.
Adjusted gross billings for the TechXtend segment decreased $2.3 million or 27% to $6.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
 During the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we relied on two key customers for a total of 44.1% of our gross billings.
One major customer accounted for 25.9% and the other for 18.2%, of our total net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
These same customers accounted for 34.8% and 13.5%, of total net accounts receivable as of March 31, 2018.
Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit increased 6% or $0.3 million to $6.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 compared $5.8 million for the same period in 2017 due to sales growth discussed above.
TechXtend segment gross profit decreased 23% to $0.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 compared to $0.9 million for the same period in the prior year due to decreased extended payment terms sales.
Extended payment term sales fluctuate from period to period based on market conditions and internal capital allocation decisions.
 Gross profit margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales) for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was 17.0% compared to 17.7% in 2017.
Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit margin was 16.8% for the quarter ended March 31,
2018, compared to 17.3% in 2017.
TechXtend segment gross profit margin for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was 19.1%, compared to 21.5% in 2017.
 For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.5 million or 23.4% of income, compared to $0.6 million or 32.0% of income for the same period in 2017.
The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the change in the federal tax rate due to the TCJA.
 Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the TCJA we have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of March 31, 2018.
As we collect and prepare necessary data and interpret the TCJA and any additional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts.
The accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA will be completed in 2018.
 Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $1.5 million to $7.0 million at March 31, 2018 from $5.5 million at December 31, 2017.
 Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $2.5 million, comprised of net income adjusted for non-cash items of $2.1 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $0.4 million.
 The increase in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in net working capital (accounts receivable, inventory, and vendor prepayments less accounts payable) resulting from the utilization of vendor prepayments made in the prior year.
 In the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $0.1 million, compared to $0.2 million in the prior year.
 Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $0.9 million was comprised of $0.8 million of dividend payments on our Common Stock, and $0.1 million for the stock repurchases.
The Credit Facility, which will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, matures on August 31, 2020, at which time the Company must pay all outstanding principal of all outstanding loans plus all accrued and unpaid interest, and any interest, fees, costs and expenses, if any.
As of March 31, 2018, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility.
 We anticipate that our working capital needs will increase as we invest in the growth of our business.
We believe that the funds held in cash and cash equivalents and our unused borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our working capital and cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
The commitments for operating leases include the minimum rent payments.
 As of March 31, 2018, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under our lines of credit and no commitments relating to standby letters of credit, and has no standby repurchase obligations or other commercial commitments (see Note 8 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements).
 As of March 31, 2018, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.
 Item 2.
 first quarter of 2018.
   (1)    Includes 9,126 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.
These shares are not included in the Common Stock repurchase program referred to in footnote (4) below.
   (2)    Average price paid per share reflects the closing price the Company’s Common Stock on the business date the shares were surrendered by the employee stockholder to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of Restricted Stock or the price of the Common Stock paid on the open market purchase, as applicable.
   (3)    Average price paid per share reflects the price of the Company’s Common Stock purchased on the open market.
   (4)    On December 3, 2014, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans.
On February 2, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans.
The Company expects to purchase shares of its Common Stock from time to time in the market or otherwise subject to market conditions.
 The Common Stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
