 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2017.
 Effective January 1, 2018 we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No.
2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with customers, or Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 606 using the full retrospective method, as discussed in detail in Note 5.
All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been updated to comply with ASC 606, as indicated by the “as adjusted” footnote.
 Certain reclassifications and immaterial revisions have been made to the prior period financial statements to conform to the current-year presentation.
 Earnings per share for the three months ended March 31, 2017 were recalculated and restated using the two class method and presented on a comparable basis with the same periods in 2018.
In 2017 the Company determined it should be reporting earnings per share using the two-class method in accordance with ASC 260-10-45-60, which treats unvested restricted shares granted under our 2012 Stock-Based Compensation Plan that are entitled to receive non-forfeitable dividends as participating securities.
While the Company has determined the impact of applying the two-class method does not have a material impact on previously issued financial statements, it is appropriate to recalculate and restate amounts presented on a comparative and consistent basis with current period results.
The table below summarizes previously reported and restated amounts on a comparative basis.
Footnote 9, Earnings Per Share provides more detail on the two-class method calculation.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows.
for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2018.
 In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”.
The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met.
The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.
  In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP.
The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.
 The net sales from our foreign operations for the first quarter of 2018 were $5.4 million as compared to $4.8 million in the first quarter of 2017.
 Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 using the full retrospective method, which requires us to restate our historical financial information to reflect the adoption as of the earliest reporting period presented.
There was no adjustment to equity as a result of the adoption.
The most significant impact of adopting the standard relates to the determination of whether the Company is acting as a principal or an agent in the sale of third party security software and software that is highly interdependent with support, as well as maintenance, support and other services.
Historically, under the transfer of risk and rewards model of revenue recognition, the Company has accounted for primarily all of its sales on a gross basis.
The new guidance requires the Company to identify performance obligations and assess transfer of control.
While assessing its performance obligations for sales of security software and software subscriptions that are highly interdependent with support, the Company determined that the vendor has ongoing performance obligations with the end customer that are not separately identifiable from the software itself.
The Company also determined that the vendor has ongoing performance obligation for sales of certain third-party maintenance, support and service contracts.
In these instances, the Company has determined that it does not have control and is acting as an agent in the sale.
When acting as an agent in a transaction, the Company accounts for sales on a net basis, with the vendor cost associated with the sale recognized as a reduction of revenue.
 The tables below present historical information adjusted as if the standard had been adopted on January 1, 2017 for all periods presented.
 Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer — A contract with a customer exists when (i) we enter into an enforceable contract with a customer that defines each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred and identifies the payment terms related to these goods or services, (ii) the contract has commercial substance and, (iii) we determine that collection of substantially all consideration for goods or services that are transferred is probable based on the customer’s intent and ability to pay the promised consideration.
All revenue is generated from contracts with customers.
separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.
To the extent a contract includes multiple promised goods or services, we apply judgment to determine whether promised goods or services are capable of being distinct in the context of the contract.
 Determination of the transaction price —The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer.
Net sales are recorded net of estimated discounts, rebates, and returns.
Vendor rebates and price protection are recorded when earned as a reduction to cost of sales or merchandise inventory, as applicable.
 Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract — If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price, or SSP, basis.
We determine standalone SSP based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through established standard prices, we use judgement and estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market pricing and pricing related to similar products.
Contracts with a significant financing component are discounted to their present value at contract inception and accreted up to the expected payment amounts.
 Hardware and software product - Hardware product consists of sales of hardware manufactured by third parties.
Hardware product is delivered from our warehouse or drop shipped directly from the vendor.
  Software product consists of sales of perpetual and term software licenses for products developed by third party vendors, which are distinct from related maintenance and support.
Software licenses are delivered via electronic license keys provided by the vendor to the end user.
Revenue from the sale of software products is recognized on a gross basis, with the selling price to the customer as net sales, and the cost of the related product as cost of sales, upon transfer of control to our customers as the Company is a principal in the transaction.
 Software maintenance and support, commonly known as software assurance or post contract support, consists of software updates and technical support provided by the software vendor to the licensor over a period of time.
In cases where the software maintenance is distinct from the related software license, software maintenance is accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
In cases where the software maintenance is not distinct from the related software license, it is accounted for as a single performance obligation with the related license.
We utilize judgement in determining whether the maintenance is distinct from the software itself.
This involves considering if the software provides its original intended functionality without the updates, or is dependent on frequent, or continuous updates to maintain its functionality.
 Software - security and highly interdependent with support - Software - security software and software highly interdependent with support consists of sales of security subscriptions and other licensed software products whose functionality is highly interdependent with, and therefore not distinct from, related software maintenance.
Delivery of the software license and related support over time is considered a single performance obligation of the third-party vendor for these products.
The Company is an agent in these transactions, with revenue being recorded on a net basis when its performance obligation of processing a valid order between the supplier and customer contracting for the services is complete.
 Maintenance, support and other services revenue - Maintenance, support and other services revenue consists of third-party post-contract support that is not critical or essential to the core functionality of the related licensed software, and, to a lesser extent, from third-party professional services, software as a service, and cloud subscriptions.
 Contract balances - Accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and returns.
A receivable is recognized in the period we deliver goods or provide services or when our right to consideration is unconditional.
Payment terms on invoiced amounts are typically 30-75 days.
The balance of accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts and returns, as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 is presented in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Accounts receivable-long-term result from product sales with extended payment terms that are discounted to their present values at the Company’s estimates of prevailing market rates at the time of the sale.
In subsequent periods, the accounts receivable are increased to the amounts due and payable by the customers through the accretion of interest income on the unpaid accounts receivable due in future years.
The amounts due under these long-term accounts receivable due within one year are reclassified to the current portion of accounts receivable and are shown net of reserves.
the agreement based on the nature of the product or service, and our performance obligations.
Products for which there are significant ongoing third-party performance obligations include software maintenance, which includes periodic software updates and support, security software that is highly interdependent with maintenance, software as a service, cloud and third party professional services.
Sales where we are acting as an agent are recognized on a net basis at the date our performance obligations are complete.
 The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximated fair value at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 because of the relative short maturity of these instruments.
The Company’s accounts receivable long-term is discounted to their present value at estimated prevailing market rates at the date of sale so the balances approximate fair value.
 For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded depreciation and amortization expense of $0.1 million and $0.1 million respectively, which is included in general and administrative expense.
In addition, the Company will pay regular monthly payments of all accrued and unpaid interest.
The interest rate for any borrowings under the Credit Facility is subject to change from time to time based on the changes in the LIBOR Rate, as defined in the Loan Agreement (the “Index”).
The Index was 1.88% at March 31, 2018.
Interest on the unpaid principal balance of the Note will be calculated using a rate of 1.50 percentage points over the Index.
If the Index becomes unavailable during the term of the Credit Facility, interest will be based upon the Prime Rate (as defined in the Loan Agreement) after notifying the Company.
 At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility.
 Our basic and diluted earnings per share are computed using the two-class method.
The two-class method is an earnings allocation that determines net income per share for each class of common stock and participating securities according to their participation rights in dividends and undistributed earnings or losses.
Non-vested restricted stock awards that include non-forfeitable rights to dividends are considered participating securities.
Per share amounts are computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted average shares outstanding during each period.
 The Company had two major vendors that accounted for 31.7% and 14.7%, respectively, of total purchases during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company had two major vendors that accounted for 30.8% and 13.4%, respectively, of total purchases during the three months ended March 31, 2017.
same customers accounted for 34.6% and 13.5% respectively, of total net accounts receivable as of March 31, 2018.
The Company had two major customers that accounted for 20.4% and 19.1%, respectively, of its net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2017.
 The 2012 Stock-Based Compensation Plan (the “2012 Plan”) authorizes the grant of Stock Options, Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock, Stock Bonuses and other equity-based awards.
The total number of shares of Common Stock initially available for award under the 2012 Plan was 600,000.
 During 2017, the Company granted a total of 87,076 shares of Restricted Stock to officers and employees.
These shares of Restricted Stock vest between twelve and twenty equal quarterly installments.
In 2017, a total of 22,694 shares of Restricted Stock were forfeited as a result of officers and employees terminating employment with the Company.
 During 2018, the Company granted a total of 60,500 shares of Restricted Stock to officers and employees.
These shares of Restricted Stock vest between sixteen and twenty equal quarterly installments.
 As of March 31, 2018, there is approximately $3.1 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements.
The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.8 years.
 For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized share-based compensation cost of $0.3 million and $0.3 million respectively, which is included in the Company’s general and administrative expense.
The internal organization used by the public company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) to assess performance and allocate resources determines the basis for reportable operating segments.
The Company’s CODM is the Chief Executive Officer.
The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide.
The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the United States and Canada.
 As permitted by FASB ASC Topic 280, the Company has utilized the aggregation criteria in combining its operations in Canada with the domestic segments as the Canadian operations provide the same products and services to similar clients and are considered together when the Company’s CODM decides how to allocate resources.
The Company only identifies accounts receivable and inventory by segment as shown below as “Selected Assets” by segment; it does not allocate its other assets, including capital expenditures by segment.
