fls.txt
We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. For additional information regarding other important factors that may affect our operations and could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please see the discussion included in Item 1A “Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases. In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows. See Note 2.  
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. An entity also should consider income tax effects from any 
tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if any. This guidance is effective prospectively and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
We adopted the New Lease Standard on January 1, 2019 using the additional transition method described in Note 1 to these condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements. Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2019 are presented under the New Lease Standard. Prior periods have not been restated. The New Lease Standard had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet due to the recognition of 
We elected the package of practical expedients which did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard. We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from non-lease components for all underlying asset classes. 
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.  
non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.  
Effective May 31, 2019, we purchased an additional 20% ownership interest in Homans Associates II LLC (“Homans”) from Carrier Enterprise Northeast, LLC (“Carrier Enterprise II”) for cash consideration of $32,400, which increased our ownership in Homans to 100%. Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and subsequent to the purchase operates as a stand-alone subsidiary of the Company with 16 locations in the Northeastern U.S.  
On June 21, 2017, our first joint venture with Carrier, Carrier Enterprise, LLC, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, acquired a 34.9% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 30 locations in the Western U.S. We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, and Carrier has a 20% non-controlling interest. Carrier Enterprise I acquired its ownership interest in RSI for cash consideration of $63,600, of which we contributed $50,880 and Carrier contributed $12,720. Effective June 29, 2018, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an additional 1.4% ownership interest in RSI, which increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 36.3% for cash consideration of $3,760 that was paid on July 5, 2018, of which we contributed $3,008 and Carrier contributed $752. Effective April 22, 2019, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an additional 1.8% ownership interest in RSI for cash consideration of $4,940, of which we contributed $3,952 and Carrier contributed $988. This acquisition increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 38.1%.
Carrier Enterprise I is a party to a shareholders agreement (the “Shareholders Agreement”) with RSI and its shareholders. Pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement, RSI’s shareholders have the right to sell, and Carrier Enterprise I has the obligation to purchase, their respective shares of RSI for a purchase price determined based on either book value or a multiple of EBIT, the latter of which Carrier Enterprise I used to calculate the price paid for its investment in RSI. RSI’s shareholders may transfer their respective shares of RSI common stock only to members of the Sigler family or to Carrier Enterprise I, and, at any time from and after the date on which Carrier Enterprise I owns 85% or more of RSI’s outstanding common stock, it has the right, but not the obligation, to purchase from RSI’s shareholders the remaining outstanding shares of RSI common stock. Additionally, Carrier Enterprise I has the right to appoint two of RSI’s six board members. Given Carrier Enterprise I’s 38.1​​​​​​​% voting equity interest in RSI and its right to appoint two out of RSI’s six board members, this investment in RSI is accounted for under the equity method. 
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges. The settlement of these derivatives results in reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings for the period in which the settlement of these instruments occurs. The maximum period for which we hedge our cash flow using these instruments is 12 months. Accordingly, at June 30, 2019, all of our open foreign currency forward contracts had maturities of one year or less. The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges at June 30, 2019 was $43,900, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through 


item4.txt
13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“the Exchange Act”)) that are, among other things, designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Senior Vice President (“SVP”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure and appropriate SEC filings. 


