item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases. In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows. See Note 2.  
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. An entity also should consider income tax effects from any 
tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if any. This guidance is effective prospectively and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
We adopted the New Lease Standard on January 1, 2019 using the additional transition method described in Note 1 to these condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements. Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2019 are presented under the New Lease Standard. Prior periods have not been restated. The New Lease Standard had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet due to the recognition of 
right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged. 
that did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard. We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from 
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment, and finance leases primarily for vehicles. Operating leases are included in operating lease 
right-of-use assets, current portion of long-term obligations, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. Finance leases are not considered significant to our consolidated balance sheet or consolidated statement of income. Finance lease ROU assets at September 30, 2019 of $2,960 are included in property and equipment, net in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet. Finance lease liabilities at September 30, 2019 of $3,047 are included in current portion of 
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.  
non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
At September 30, 2019, we had additional operating leases, primarily for real property, that had not yet commenced. Such leases had estimated future minimum rental commitments of approximately $1,600. These operating leases 
Effective May 31, 2019, we purchased an additional 20​​​​​​​% ownership interest in Homans Associates II LLC (“Homans”) from Carrier Enterprise Northeast, LLC (“Carrier Enterprise II”) for cash consideration of $32,400, which increased our ownership in Homans to 100%. Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and subsequent to the purchase operates as a stand-alone subsidiary of the Company with 16 locations in the Northeastern U.S. 
ure with Carrier, Carrier Enterprise, LLC, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, acquired a 34.9% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 30 locations in the Western U.S. We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, and Carrier has a 20% 
On August 1, 2019, Carrier Enterprise I acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of Peirce-Phelps, Inc. (“PPI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 19 locations in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware, for $85,000 less certain average revolving indebtedness. Consideration for the net purchase price consisted of $10,000 in cash


item2.txt
In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products. We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, and Carrier has a 20% 
In 2011, we formed a second joint venture with Carrier, in which Carrier contributed 28 of its company-owned locations in the Northeast U.S., and we contributed 14 locations in the Northeast U.S., and we then purchased Carrier’s distribution operations in Mexico, which included seven locations. Collectively, the Northeast locations and the Mexico operations are referred to as Carrier Enterprise II. We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise II, and Carrier has a 20% non-controlling interest. Effective May 31, 2019, we purchased an additional 20% ownership interest in Homans Associates II LLC (“Homans”) from Carrier Enterprise II, following which we owned 100% of Homans. Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and now operates as one of our stand-alone-subsidiaries. 
In the following narratives, computations and other information referring to “same-store basis” exclude the effects of locations closed, acquired, or locations opened, unless they are within close geographical proximity to existing locations, during the immediately preceding 12 months. At September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, 10 and 8 locations opened were near existing locations and were therefore included in “same-store basis” information.  
Revenues for the third quarter of 2019 increased $98.9 million, or 8%, including $58.7 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $4.2 million from locations closed. Sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales) increased 8%, sales of other HVAC products (29% of sales) increased 11% and sales of commercial refrigeration products (3% of sales) increased 1%. On a same-store basis, revenues increased $44.4 million, or 3%, as compared to the same period in 2018, reflecting a 4% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (69% of sales), which included a 6% increase in residential HVAC equipment, a 2% increase in sales of other HVAC products (27% of sales) and 1% increase of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales). For residential HVAC equipment, the increase in revenues was primarily due to strong demand for the replacement of residential HVAC equipment, realization of price increases and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices, resulting in a 4% increase in volume and a 2% increase in the average selling price.  
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of 2019 increased $12.5 million, or 6%, primarily due to increased revenues. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 decreased to 15.3% versus 15.5% for the same period in 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses included $1.5 million of additional costs for 2019 in excess of 2018 for ongoing technology initiatives, driven in part by our acquisition of Alert Labs in August 2018. On a same-store basis, selling, general and administrative expenses were flat as compared to the same period in 2018.  
Net income attributable to Watsco for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 increased $4.3 million, or 5%, compared to the same period in 2018. The increase was primarily driven by higher revenues and gross profit, reduced selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues and a decrease in net income attributable to the 
Revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $142.7 million, or 4%, including $85.6 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $10.4 million from locations closed. Sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales) increased 8%, sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) increased 3% and sales of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales) decreased 1%. On a same-store basis, revenues increased $67.5 million, or 2%, as compared to the same period in 2018, reflecting a 3% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales), which included a 4% increase in residential HVAC equipment, a 1% decrease in sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) and a 1% decrease in commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales). For residential HVAC equipment, the increase in same-store revenues was primarily due to realization of price increases and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices, and demand for the replacement of residential HVAC equipment, resulting in a 2% increase in the average selling price and a 2% increase in volume.  
Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $25.8 million, or 3%, primarily as a result of increased revenues. Gross profit margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 declined 30 basis-points to 24.2% versus 24.5% for the same period in 2018, primarily due to the benefit of 
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $24.0 million, or 4%, primarily due to increased revenues. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues remained consistent at 15.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses included $4.3 million of additional costs for 2019 in excess of 2018 for ongoing technology initiatives, driven in part by our acquisition of Alert Labs in August 2018. On a same-store basis, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 1% as compared to the same period in 2018.  
We rely on cash flows from operations and borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to fund seasonal working capital needs and for other general corporate purposes, including dividend payments (if and as declared by our Board of Directors), capital expenditures, business acquisitions, and development of our long-term operating and technology strategies. Additionally, we may also generate cash through the issuance and sale of our Common stock.  
Our access to funds under our revolving credit agreement depends on the ability of the syndicate banks to meet their respective funding commitments. Disruptions in the credit and capital markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit agreement and may also adversely affect the determination of interest rates, particularly rates based on LIBOR, which is one of the base rates under our revolving credit agreement. LIBOR is the subject of recent proposals for reform that currently provide for the 
Working capital increased to $1,148.5 million at September 30, 2019 from $1,084.2 million at December 31, 2018, reflecting higher levels of accounts receivable and inventories, primarily due to new locations opened and acquired, as well as additional inventory acquired in anticipation of the transition to new energy conservation standards for residential furnace fans that became effective on July 3, 2019. These increases were partially offset by the timing of accounts payable and accrued liabilities as well as the current portion of lease liabilities recognized as current liabilities as a result of the adoption of the New Lease Standard on January 1, 2019.  
We maintain an unsecured, $500.0 million syndicated multicurrency revolving credit agreement, which we use to fund seasonal working capital needs and for other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, dividends (if and as declared by our Board of Directors), capital expenditures, stock repurchases and issuances of letters of credit. The credit facility has a seasonal component from October 1 to March 31, during which the borrowing capacity was reduced to $400.0 million at our discretion. Included in the credit facility are a $100.0 million swingline subfacility, a $10.0 million letter of credit subfacility, a $75.0 million alternative currency borrowing sublimit and an $8.0 million Mexican borrowing sublimit. The credit agreement matures on December 5, 2023. 


item4.txt
13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“the Exchange Act”)) that are, among other things, designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Executive Vice President (“EVP”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure and appropriate SEC filings.


