item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  
The results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December 31, 2018. Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal. Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons. Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter. Demand related to the new construction market is generally evenly distributed throughout the year, subject to weather and economic conditions, including their effect on the number of housing completions.  
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued a standard on revenue recognition that provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers. The standard is principle-based and provides a five-step model to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized. In 2015 and 2016, the FASB issued several updates to this standard. The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Revenue Standard”) on January 1, 2018 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the modified retrospective approach, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated net income, balance sheet or cash flow. See Note 2.  
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance related to certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. Most prominent among the changes to the standard is the requirement that changes in the fair value of equity investments, with certain exceptions, be recognized through net income rather than other comprehensive income. This guidance must be applied using a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings and became effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. A cumulative-effect adjustment captured the previously held unrealized losses of $301 related to our equity investment carried at fair value. See Note 4.  
In May 2017, the FASB issued guidance to clarify when to account for a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification. Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions. This guidance must be applied prospectively and became effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases. The guidance requires enhanced disclosures regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. This guidance will be applied using a modified retrospective approach and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 with early adoption permitted. We will adopt this guidance on January 1, 2019. While we are still evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements, including the option to elect certain practical expedients, we expect that, upon adoption, the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities recorded could be material to our consolidated balance sheets. However, we do not expect a material impact on our consolidated statements of income.  
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. An entity also should consider income tax effects from any tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if any. This guidance is effective prospectively and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
We adopted the New Revenue Standard on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. The New Revenue Standard did not have an impact on the amount and timing of our revenue recognition; however, certain payments to customers were reclassified from expense to a reduction from revenues resulting in an immaterial impact to the individual financial statement line items of our condensed consolidated unaudited statement of income. Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.  
We estimate sales incentives expected to be paid over the term of the contract based on the most likely amount. Contract liabilities related to sales incentives are accounted for as a reduction in the transaction price and are generally paid on an annual basis. Accrued sales incentives of $6,260 and $13,001 as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, were included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheets.  
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $91,000 and $21,800, respectively, were outstanding under the revolving credit agreement. The revolving credit agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants with respect to consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, and other customary restrictions. We believe we were in compliance with all covenants at March 31, 2018.  
On February 13, 2017, we purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise Northeast LLC, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise II, for cash consideration of $42,688, which increased our controlling interest from 70% to 80%. Carrier Enterprise II was formed in 2011 as a joint venture with Carrier. Carrier Enterprise II had sales of approximately $545,000 in 2017 from 40 locations in the northeastern United States and 14 locations in Mexico.  
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges. The settlement of these derivatives results in reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings for the period in which the settlement of these instruments occurs. The maximum period for which we hedge our cash flow using these instruments is 12 months. Accordingly, at March 31, 2018, all of our open foreign currency forward contracts had maturities of one year or less. The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges at March 31, 2018 was $34,200, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through December 2018.  
Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 62% of all inventory purchases made during both the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, approximately $99,000 and $75,000, respectively, was payable to Carrier and its affiliates, net of receivables. Our joint ventures with Carrier also sell HVAC products to Carrier and its affiliates. Revenues in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 included approximately $16,000 and $11,000, respectively, of sales to Carrier and its affiliates. We believe these transactions are conducted on terms equivalent to an arm’s-length basis in the ordinary course of business.  


item2.txt
In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products. In July 2012, we exercised our option to acquire an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise I, which increased our ownership interest to 70%; and, on July 1, 2014, we exercised our last remaining option to acquire an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise I, which increased our controlling interest to 80%. Neither Watsco nor Carrier has any remaining options to purchase additional ownership interests in Carrier Enterprise I or any of our other joint ventures with Carrier, which are described below.  
The following narratives reflect our approximate 35% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”) purchased in June 2017 and our additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, which became effective on February 13, 2017. We did not acquire any material businesses during 2018 or 2017.  
Revenues for the first quarter of 2018 increased $54.5 million, or 6%, including $4.6 million from locations opened during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.3 million from locations closed. On a same-store basis, revenues increased $53.2 million, or 6%, as compared to the same period in 2017, reflecting an 8% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (66% of sales), which included a 9% increase in residential HVAC equipment and a 4% increase in commercial HVAC equipment, a 5% increase in sales of other HVAC products (29% of sales) and flat sales of commercial refrigeration products (5% of sales). The increase in same-store revenues was primarily due to strong demand for the replacement of residential and commercial HVAC equipment. Revenues from sales of residential HVAC equipment also benefited from an improved sales mix of higher-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices.  
Net income attributable to Watsco for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased $8.0 million, or 31%, compared to the same period in 2017. The increase was primarily driven by higher revenues, expanded operating margin, lower interest expense, net, and lower income taxes as discussed above.  
We rely on cash flows from operations and borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to fund seasonal working capital needs and for other general corporate purposes, including dividend payments (to the extent declared by our Board of Directors), capital expenditures, business acquisitions, and development of our long-term operating and technology strategies. Additionally, we may generate cash through the issuance and sale of our Common stock.  
We believe that our operating cash flows, cash on hand, and funds available for borrowing under our revolving credit agreement are sufficient to meet our liquidity needs in the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that our current sources of available funds will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements.  
The increase in net cash used in operating activities was primarily due to the timing of payments for accrued expenses and other current liabilities, partially offset by higher net income for the first quarter of 2018.  
We maintain an unsecured, syndicated revolving credit agreement, which we use to fund seasonal working capital needs and for other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, dividends (if and as declared by our Board of Directors), capital expenditures, stock repurchases, and issuances of letters of credit. Effective February 5, 2018, we decreased the borrowing capacity under this credit agreement from $600.0 million to $300.0 million. Included in the credit facility are a $90.0 million swingline subfacility, a $10.0 million letter of credit subfacility and a $75.0 million multicurrency borrowing sublimit. The credit agreement matures on July 1, 2019.  
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $91.0 million and $21.8 million, respectively, were outstanding under the revolving credit agreement. The revolving credit agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants with respect to consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, and other customary restrictions. We believe we were in compliance with all covenants at March 31, 2018.  
On February 13, 2017, we purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II for cash consideration of $42.7 million, which increased our controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise II to 80%. We used borrowings under our revolving credit agreement to finance this acquisition.  
On June 21, 2017, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an approximately 35% ownership interest in RSI, an HVAC distributor operating from 30 locations in the Western U.S. for cash consideration of $63.6 million, of which we contributed $50.9 million, and Carrier contributed $12.7 million. Carrier Enterprise I entered into a shareholders agreement (the “Shareholders Agreement”) with RSI and its shareholders. Pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement, RSI’s shareholders have the right to sell, and Carrier Enterprise I has the obligation to purchase, their respective shares of RSI for a purchase price determined based on either book value or a multiple of EBIT, the latter of which Carrier Enterprise I used to calculate the price paid for its investment in RSI. RSI’s shareholders may transfer their respective shares of RSI common stock only to members of the Sigler family or to Carrier Enterprise I, and, at any time from and after the date on which Carrier Enterprise I owns 85% or more of RSI’s outstanding common stock, it has the right, but not the obligation, to purchase from RSI’s shareholders the remaining outstanding shares of RSI common stock. We believe that our operating cash flows, cash on hand, and funds available for borrowing under our revolving credit agreement will be sufficient to purchase any additional ownership interests in RSI.  
In September 1999, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase, at management’s discretion, of up to 7,500,000 shares of common stock in the open market or via private transactions. Shares repurchased under the program are accounted for using the cost method and result in a reduction of shareholders’ equity. No shares were repurchased during the quarters ended March 31, 2018 or  
2017. In aggregate, 6,370,913 shares of Common and Class B common stock have been repurchased at a cost of $114.4 million since the inception of the program. At March 31, 2018, there were 1,129,087 shares remaining authorized for repurchase under the program.  


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 10 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption “Litigation, Claims and Assessments,” which information is incorporated by reference in this Item 1 of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  


