fls.txt
Statements which are not historical in nature, including the words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “could,” “should,” “may,” “plan,” “seek,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “target,” “will,” “project,” “focused,” “outlook,” “goal,” “designed,” and variations of these words and negatives thereof and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, including statements regarding, among others, (i) economic conditions, (ii) business and acquisition strategies, (iii) potential acquisitions and/or joint ventures and investments in unconsolidated entities, (iv) financing plans, and (v) industry, demographic and other trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019, did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
The New Lease Standard had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet due to the recognition of right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2019 are presented under the New Lease Standard, while prior period results have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
We elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess 1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, 2) lease classification for existing leases and 3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from non-lease components for all underlying asset classes.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use assets, current portion of long-term obligations, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet.
Finance lease liabilities at March 31, 2019 of $2,882 are included in current portion of long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our consolidated balance sheet.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.
Certain real property lease agreements have lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component.


item2.txt
Revenues primarily consist of sales of air conditioning, heating, and refrigeration equipment, and related parts and supplies.
Other significant selling, general and administrative expenses relate to the operation of warehouse facilities, including a fleet of trucks and forklifts, and facility rent, a majority of which facilities we operate under non-cancelable operating leases.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter.
In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products.
In April 2011, Carrier contributed 28 of its company-owned locations in the Northeast U.S., and we contributed 14 locations in the Northeast U.S.
In 2012, we formed a third joint venture, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise III, with UTC Canada Corporation, referred to as UTC Canada, an affiliate of Carrier.
We believe that there have been no significant changes during the quarter ended March 31, 2019 to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Refer to Note 1 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recently adopted and to be adopted accounting standards.
The following narratives reflect our acquisition of Alert Labs, Inc. in August 2018, our acquisition of an HVAC distributor in November 2018 and the purchase of an additional 1.4% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”) in June 2018.
In the following narratives, computations and other information referring to “same-store basis” exclude the effects of locations closed, acquired, or locations opened, unless they are within close geographical proximity to existing locations, during the immediately preceding 12 months.
Revenues for the first quarter of 2019 increased $4.7 million, or 1%, including $4.1 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $2.7 million from locations closed.
For HVAC equipment, the increase in revenues was primarily due to realization of price increases and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices, resulting in a 2% increase in the average selling price, partially offset by a 1% decrease in volume.


item4.txt



