fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organization.
As a result of the Reorganization that occurred in the third quarter 2018, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, as the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) began assessing operating profits and identified assets at the enterprise level for resource allocations.
Until the Reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions.
In order to understand the Company’s financial results, it is necessary to understand the impact on gross profit of the revenue mix between them.
The significant accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth within the 2018 Form 10-K.
The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency.
Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The Company completed this project plan, in which it analyzed the ASU's impact on its leases, surveyed the Company's key employees, assessed the portfolio of leases, and established a future lease process to keep the lease accounting portfolio up to date.
The Company also evaluated the key policy elections and considerations under the standard and completed the internal policy documentation to address the new standard requirements.
Additional information and disclosures required by this new standard are contained in Note 10, 'Leases'.
2016-13 (ASU 2016-13) regarding ASC Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, which modifies the measurement of expected credit losses of certain financial instruments.
Cash equivalents are measured at fair value and investments are recognized at amortized cost in the Company’s financial statements.
Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities.
The Company restricts its investments in AAA money market funds to those invested 100% in either short-term U.S. government agency securities or bank repurchase agreements collateralized by these same securities.
The fair values of these money market funds are established through quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs).
The Company’s cash in its foreign bank accounts is not insured.


item2.txt
The following information should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (the “2018 Form 10-K”).
Such statements constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Revenues decreased for the antenna product line due to lower revenues with Enterprise Wi-Fi applications and increased for the test and measurement due to sales of 5G products.
Primarily based on higher gross margins, we recorded a lower operating loss for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the first quarter 2018.
The operating loss was $0.5 million and $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
PCTEL antenna are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where the antennas are designed into the customer’s solution.
Our test and measurement products are sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEM providers who integrate our products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers.
Competitors for PCTEL’s test tool products include OEMs such as Anritsu, Berkley Varitronics, Digital Receiver Technology, and Rohde and Schwarz.


item3.txt



item4.txt
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.


part2.txt
We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.


