The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organization.
In connection with the Reorganization, the Board of Directors appointed a Chief Operating Officer who maintains regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the Company’s businesses.
All operating profit and cash flows are measured and managed at the enterprise level.
Until the Reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions.
The CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations.
In order to understand the Company’s financial results, it is necessary to understand the impact on gross profit of the revenue mix between them.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 is derived from the audited financial statements as of December 31, 2018.
The significant accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in the 2018 Form 10-K.
Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
Net foreign exchange gains resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $226 and $28 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.The following information should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (the “2018 Form 10-K”).
Such statements constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
Primarily based on higher gross profit margins, we recorded an operating income of $0.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to an operating loss of $2.4 million during the third quarter 2018.
Antenna product revenues decreased by $2.6 million or 5.1% to $47.6 million primarily due to lower revenues with enterprise Wi-Fi applications and small cell antennas.
Competition in the antenna markets is fragmented.Conducting business in foreign countries involves additional financial, operating, and regulatory risks.