fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organization.
In connection with the Reorganization, the Board of Directors appointed a Chief Operating Officer who maintains regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the Company’s businesses.
All operating profit and cash flows are measured and managed at the enterprise level.
Until the Reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions.
The CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations.
In order to understand the Company’s financial results, it is necessary to understand the impact on gross profit of the revenue mix between them.
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and reflect all adjustments of a normal recurring nature that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the interim period financial statements.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 is derived from the audited financial statements as of December 31, 2018.
The significant accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in the 2018 Form 10-K.
The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency.
Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
Net foreign exchange gains (losses) resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $28 and $(9) for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The Company also evaluated the key policy elections and considerations under the standard and completed the internal policy documentation to address the new standard requirements.
total assets and liabilities increased due to the recording of right-of-use assets of $1.5 million and lease liabilities of $1.6 million.
Additional information and disclosures required by this new standard are contained in Note 10, 'Leases'.
2016-13 (ASU 2016-13) regarding ASC Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, which modifies the measurement of expected credit losses of certain financial instruments.


item2.txt
Such statements constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
Revenues decreased for the antenna product line due to lower revenues with enterprise Wi-Fi applications and small cell antennas.
Revenues increased for the test and measurement product line due to sales of 5G products.
Competition in the antenna markets is fragmented.
Our test and measurement products are sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEM providers who integrate our products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers.
Competitors for PCTEL’s test tool products include OEMs such as Anritsu, Berkley Varitronics, Digital Receiver Technology, and Rohde and Schwarz.
Effective August 2018, we consolidated our organizational structure to drive growth and address the convergence in the Industrial IoT, public safety, and 4G infrastructure markets and the emergence of new technologies such as 5G (the “Reorganization”).


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Conducting business in foreign countries involves additional financial, operating, and regulatory risks.


