fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
For further information, refer to the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
PCTEL, Inc. (“PCTEL”, the “Company”, “we”, “ours”, and “us”) delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
PCTEL is a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions.
PCTEL’s Connected Solutions segment designs and manufactures precision antennas.
Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks.
The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into single enterprise-wide organizations.
All operating profit and cash flows are measured and managed at the enterprise level.
Until the reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions.
All of the Company’s accounting and finance, human resources, information technology (“IT”) and legal functions were provided on a centralized basis through the corporate function.
Because the reorganization occurred during the third quarter 2018, this report reflects the segment reporting structure that was in effect for all of 2017 and through August of 2018.
PCTEL antennas are deployed primarily in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in equipment and devices for the IIoT.
Revenue growth in these markets is driven by the increased use of wireless communications and increased complexity occurring in these markets.
PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution.
Competition in the antenna markets is fragmented.
PCTEL maintains expertise in several technology areas in order to be competitive in the antenna market.
PCTEL RF Solutions provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally, with a focus on LTE, public safety, and emerging 5G technologies.
PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate the Company’s products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers.


item2.txt
The following information should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
Such statements constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
Revenues decreased for the Connected Solutions segment by $3.1 million or 17.3% and decreased for the RF Solutions segment by $2.2 million or 38.0% compared to the third quarter 2017.
For the third quarter 2018, we recorded an operating loss of $2.4 million compared to operating profit of $0.9 million in the third quarter 2017.
Revenues declined in the RF Solutions segment by $4.5 million or 27.6% and revenues declined in the Connected Solutions segment by $2.0 million or 3.8%.
PCTEL delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
We are a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions.
The Connected Solutions segment designs and manufactures precision antennas.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.


