fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
For further information, refer to the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
PCTEL, Inc. (“PCTEL”, the “Company”, “we”, “ours”, and “us”) delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks.
The Company manages its balance sheet and cash flows centrally at the corporate level, with the exception of trade accounts receivable and inventory which is managed at the segment level.
PCTEL Connected Solutions designs and manufactures precision antennas.
PCTEL antennas are deployed primarily in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in equipment and devices for the IIoT.
PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution.
Competition in the antenna markets addressed by the Connected Solutions segment is fragmented.
PCTEL maintains expertise in several technology areas in order to be competitive in the antenna market.
PCTEL RF Solutions provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally, with a focus on LTE, public safety, and emerging 5G technologies.
PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate the Company’s products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers.
These include radio frequency engineering, digital signal process (“DSP”) engineering, manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company approved a plan to sell its Network Engineering Service business (“Engineering Services”) and shift its focus toward research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products.
Due to the significance of its historical results and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products, the disposition of Engineering Services also qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes.
See Note 5 for more information on discontinued operations.
Certain amounts in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
See Note 13 related to Revenue from Contracts with Customers for additional disclosures related to revenue policies.


item2.txt
The following information should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-+K”).
Such statements constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
Our first quarter 2018 revenues decreased by $1.2 million, or 5.4% compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenues for the RF Solutions segment.
We recorded an operating loss of $1.2 million compared to operating income of $22 during the same period in 2017.
PCTEL delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
PCTEL antennas are deployed in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in network equipment and devices for the Industrial Internet of Things (“IIoT”).
Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



