fls.txt



item1.txt
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government.
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government.
The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
All intercompany transactions and account balances within the Company have been eliminated.
The financial statements are unaudited, but in the opinion of management include all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
Contract assets and liabilities are recorded net on a contract-by-contract basis and generally are classified as current, based on our contract operating cycle.
Derivative instruments are recorded on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets at fair value.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value.
See Note 8 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Inventory is substantially comprised of finished goods inventory purchased for resale to customers, such as tires and lubricants, and is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
The Company recognized a $25 million provision for inventory within cost of revenues during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018 related to firm purchase commitments on a firm-fixed price program.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements and some cost guidance included in the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC).
This ASU is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Under this method, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of adoption as an adjustment to its opening balance of retained earnings on February 3, 2018.


item2.txt
We use the terms "SAIC," the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to Science Applications International Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We serve our customers through approximately 1,300 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 15,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders.
The proceeds will be used to repay Engility's existing credit facility and outstanding notes.
A budget agreement passed in February would extend and increase those spending levels for GFY 2019.
Without additional action, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.
Some changes that could have an adverse impact on our business include the implementation of future spending reductions (including sequestration), government shutdowns and issues related to required increases to the nation’s debt ceiling (under current law, the debt ceiling will be reached in March 2019).
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules and other multi-award contracts) which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex mission-critical contracts.
In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.


