The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
The four quarters in fiscal 2018 ended on July 2, 2017, October 1, 2017, December 31, 2017, and March 31, 2018, respectively.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
1. identify the contract with a customer; 2. identify the performance obligations in the contract; 3. determine the transaction price; 4. allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations; and 5. recognize revenue as the performance obligations are satisfied.
The Company recognizes revenue when (or as) performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of the performance obligation to a customer.
Control of a performance obligation may transfer to the customer either at a point in time or over time depending on an evaluation of the specific facts and circumstances for each contract, including the terms and conditions of the contract as agreed with the customer, as well as the nature of the products or services to be provided.
Service revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 amounted to $35,482.
A small portion of the Company's customer arrangements oblige the Company to create customized products for its customers that require the bundling of both products and services into a single performance obligation because the individual products and services that are required to fulfill the customer requirements do not meet the definitions for a distinct performance obligation.EnerSys’ management uses the non-GAAP measures “primary working capital” and “primary working capital percentage” in its evaluation of business segment cash flow and financial position performance.
Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
Recent indicators continue to suggest a mixed trend in economic activity among the different geographical regions.
Our Asia region continues to grow faster than any other region in which we do business.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we increased our selling prices in response to increased commodity costs.
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $513 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $540 million at July 1, 2018 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.