The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
The four quarters in fiscal 2018 end on July 2, 2017, October 1, 2017, December 31, 2017, and March 31, 2018, respectively.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
This update requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase of the leased asset by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
The fair values of lead forward contracts are calculated using observable prices for lead as quoted on the London Metal Exchange (“LME”) and, therefore, were classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy, as described in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in its 2017 Annual Report.The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of EnerSys.
Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
Recent indicators continue to suggest a mixed trend in economic activity among the different geographical regions.
Our Asia region continues to grow faster than any other region in which we do business.
During the nine months of fiscal 2018, we increased our selling prices in response to increased commodity costs.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we entered into a new credit facility (“2017 Credit Facility”) that comprises a $600 million senior secured revolving credit facility (“2017 Revolver”) and a $150 million senior secured term loan (“2017 Term Loan”) with a maturity date of September 30, 2022.
We believe that the 2017 Credit Facility provides us with sufficient liquidity to fund acquisitions and stock repurchase programs.
Net sales increased $95.2 million or 16.9% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.