The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
1. identify the contract with a customer; 3. determine the transaction price; 4. allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations; and 5. recognize revenue as the performance obligations are satisfied.
The Company recognizes revenue when (or as) performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of the performance obligation to a customer.
Control of a performance obligation may transfer to the customer either at a point in time or over time depending on an evaluation of the specific facts and circumstances for each contract, including the terms and conditions of the contract as agreed with the customer, as well as the nature of the products or services to be provided.
Each customer purchase order sets forth the transaction price for the products and services purchased under that arrangement.
Service revenues for the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019 amounted to $37,105 and $69,200, respectively.
A small portion of the Company's customer arrangements oblige the Company to create customized products for its customers that require the bundling of both products and services into a single performance obligation because the individual products and services that are required to fulfill the customer requirements do not meet the definitions for a distinct performance obligation.Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
North America and EMEA are experiencing moderate economic growth, with the economic growth in the United States accelerating.
Our Asia region continues to grow faster than any other region in which we do business.
During the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019, where permitted, we increased our selling prices in response to increased commodity costs including other raw materials and freight.
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $545 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $531 million at September 30, 2018 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.
In fiscal 2018, we entered into a new credit facility (“2017 Credit Facility”) that comprises a $600 million senior secured revolving credit facility (“2017 Revolver”) and a $150 million senior secured term loan (“2017 Term Loan”) with a maturity date of September 30, 2022, which provides us with sufficient liquidity to fund acquisitions and stock repurchase programs.
Net sales increased $43.2 million or 7.0% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018.We manage our exposure to these market risks through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.