The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
The four quarters in fiscal 2018 ended on July 2, 2017, October 1, 2017, December 31, 2017, and March 31, 2018, respectively.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
1. identify the contract with a customer; 3. determine the transaction price; 4. allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations; and 5. recognize revenue as the performance obligations are satisfied.
The Company recognizes revenue when (or as) performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of the performance obligation to a customer.
Control of a performance obligation may transfer to the customer either at a point in time or over time depending on an evaluation of the specific facts and circumstances for each contract, including the terms and conditions of the contract as agreed with the customer, as well as the nature of the products or services to be provided.
Each customer purchase order sets forth the transaction price for the products and services purchased under that arrangement.
Service revenues for the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019 amounted to $37,472 and $106,672, respectively.Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
Additionally, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Alpha Technologies Inc. and certain assets of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc. and other affiliates of ATS and ATL (all such sellers, together with ATS and ATL, “Alpha”), in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of certain restructuring agreements (collectively, the “asset acquisition” and together with the share purchase, the “acquisition”).
Based in Bellingham, Washington, Alpha is a global industry leader in the comprehensive commercial-grade energy solutions for broadband, telecom, renewable, industrial and traffic customers around the world.
Recent indicators continue to suggest a mixed trend in economic activity among the different geographical regions.
Our Asia region continues to grow faster than any other region in which we do business.
Approximately 30% of our revenue is currently subject to agreements that adjust pricing to a market-based index for lead.Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.