fls.txt
EnerSys and its representatives may, from time to time, make written or verbal forward-looking statements, including statements contained in EnerSys’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and its reports to stockholders.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
EnerSys (the “Company,”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The consolidated condensed financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and any partially owned subsidiaries that the Company has the ability to control.
•to apply the short-term lease exception to leases that, at the commencement date, has a lease term of 12 months or less and does not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise.
Upon adoption, the Company recorded Right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities of approximately $84,878 and $87,248, respectively.
In addition, capital lease assets and liabilities are now classified as finance lease right-of-use assets and liabilities.
The discount rates used to calculate the ROU assets and lease liabilities as of the effective date were based on the remaining lease terms as of the effective date.
Service revenues related to the work performed for the Company’s customers by its maintenance technicians generally represent a separate and distinct performance obligation.
Service revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 amounted to $60,718 and $35,482, respectively.
A small portion of the Company's customer arrangements oblige the Company to create customized products for its customers that require the bundling of both products and services into a single performance obligation because the individual products and services that are required to fulfill the customer requirements do not meet the definition for a distinct performance obligation.
For these arrangements, control transfers over time and the Company measures progress towards completion by selecting the input or output method that best depicts the transfer of control of the underlying goods and services to the customer for each respective arrangement.
As of June 30, 2019, the current and non-current portion of contract liabilities were $14,289 and $6,821, respectively.
As of March 31, 2019, the current and non-current portion of contract liabilities were $15,162 and $6,360, respectively.
Revenues recognized during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, that were included in the contract liability at the beginning of the quarter, amounted to $4,467 and $1,936, respectively.
At June 30, 2019, the right of return asset related to the value of inventory anticipated to be returned from customers was $2,667 and refund liability representing amounts estimated to be refunded to customers was $5,183.
When determining if it has the right to direct the use of an underlying asset, the Company considers if it has the right to direct how and for what purpose the asset is used throughout the period of use and if it controls the decision-making rights over the asset.


item2.txt
•the operation, capacity and security of our information systems and infrastructure.
Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
EnerSys (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is the world’s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries.
These shares were issued out of the Company's treasury stock and were valued at $84.92 per share, which was based on the thirty-day volume weighted average stock price of the Company’s common stock at closing, in accordance with the purchase agreement.
The results of operations of Alpha have been included in the Company’s Americas segment.
Recent indicators continue to suggest a mixed trend in economic activity among the different geographical regions.
North America's experiencing moderate economic growth while EMEA's economic growth is slow.
Our Asia region continues to grow faster than any other region in which we do business.
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $262 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $568 million at June 30, 2019 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.
In fiscal 2018, we entered into a new credit facility (“2017 Credit Facility”) that consisted of a $600 million senior secured revolving credit facility (“2017 Revolver”) and a $150 million senior secured term loan (“2017 Term Loan”) with a maturity date of September 30, 2022.


item3.txt
Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.
We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives.


item4.txt



part2.txt
From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.


