Item 1.
Consolidated Financial Statements:
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
Table of Contents
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Table of Contents
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
ASSETS
Table of Contents
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION — (CONTINUED)
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Table of Contents
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
 AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Table of Contents
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
 AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Table of Contents
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
 AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY — (CONTINUED)
 (UNAUDITED)
Table of Contents
Noncontrolling interest amounts of $6.2 million and $4.4 million, net of tax, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $17.9 million and $11.5 million, net of tax, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Interim results are not necessarily indicative of financial results for a full year.
The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the company’s 2017 Annual Report.
Within the financial statements and tables presented, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
This is annotated where applicable.
New Standards to be Implemented
In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance on a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in cloud-computing arrangements that are hosted by a vendor.
Certain types of implementation costs should be capitalized and amortized over the term of the hosting arrangement.
The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 and early adoption is permitted.
The company will adopt the guidance on January 1, 2019 on a prospective basis, and does not expect the guidance to have a material impact on the consolidated financial results.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance requires the consideration of all available relevant information when estimating expected credit losses, including past events, current conditions and forecasts and their implications for expected credit losses.
A cross-functional team has been established that is evaluating the financial instruments portfolio and system, process and policy change requirements.
The new guidance expands the scope of financial instruments subject to impairment, including off-balance sheet commitments and residual value.
The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with one-year early adoption permitted and the company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the new guidance and adoption date.
The FASB issued guidance in February 2016, with amendments in 2018, which changes the accounting for leases.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 and early adoption is permitted.
The company will
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
adopt the guidance as of the effective date and will apply the transition option, whereby prior comparative periods will not be retrospectively presented in the consolidated financial statements.
The company expects to elect the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company will make a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
The other practical expedients available under the guidance are being evaluated.
A cross-functional implementation team is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process, control and policy change requirements.
The company has made significant progress in these areas as well as in gathering the necessary data elements for the lease population.
A system provider has been selected, with system configuration, testing and implementation underway.
The company continues to evaluate the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
As a lessee, the company’s operating lease commitments were $6.6 billion at December 31, 2017.
From a lessor perspective, due to changes in lease termination guidance, when equipment is returned to the company prior to the end of the lease term, the carrying amounts of lease receivables, which remain outstanding relating to that equipment and still expected to be collected, will be reclassified to loan receivables.
The amount that would have been reclassified from lease receivables to loan receivables in 2017, under the application of this new guidance, would have been approximately $450 million.
Additionally, the company does not expect the removal of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test to have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The company continues to assess the potential impacts of the guidance, including changes to the guidance expected to be issued by the FASB, normal and ongoing business dynamics or potential changes in contracting terms, and as a result, preliminary conclusions are subject to change.
Standards Implemented
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the application of hedge accounting in certain areas, better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements and make targeted improvements to presentation and disclosure requirements.
The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted.
The company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2018, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was not permitted except for limited provisions.
The company adopted the guidance on the effective date.
Certain equity investments are now measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The amendment also simplified the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value.
The guidance did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The guidance also requires specific disclosures relating to revenue recognition.
The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method.
At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets.
In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million.
Deferred income of $29 million was recorded for certain software licenses that will be recognized over time versus at a point in time under previous guidance.
Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced by $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million.
The guidance did not have a material impact in the company’s consolidated financial results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The company expects revenue recognition for its broad portfolio of hardware, software, and services offerings to remain largely unchanged.
Refer to note 3, “Revenue Recognition,” for additional information, including further discussion on the impact of adoption and changes in accounting policies relating to revenue recognition.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance which clarifies the definition of a business.
The guidance provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities acquired or sold is a business.
The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was permitted.
The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance which requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets, other than inventory, at the time of transfer.
Assets within the scope of the guidance include intellectual property and property, plant and equipment.
The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was permitted.
The company adopted the guidance on January 1, 2017 using the required modified retrospective method.
At adoption, $95 million and $47 million were reclassified from investments and sundry assets and prepaid expenses and other current assets, respectively into retained earnings.
Additionally, net deferred taxes of $244 million were established in deferred taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $102 million.
In January 2017, the company had one transaction that generated a $582 million benefit to income tax expense, income from continuing operations and net income and a benefit to both basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.62 per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
No transactions impacted the consolidated financial results for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The ongoing impact of this guidance will be dependent on any transaction that is within its scope.
In March 2016, the FASB issued guidance which changes the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The guidance was effective and adopted by the company on January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The ongoing impact of the guidance could result in increased volatility in the provision for income taxes and earnings per share in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, depending on the company’s share price at exercise or vesting of share-based awards compared to grant date, however these impacts are not expected to be material.
These impacts are recorded on a prospective basis.
The company continues to estimate forfeitures in conjunction with measuring stock-based compensation cost.
The guidance also requires cash payments on behalf of employees for shares directly withheld for taxes to be presented as financing outflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The FASB also issued guidance in May 2017 and June 2018, which relates to the accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards and accounting for share-based payments issued to non-employees, respectively.
The company adopted the guidance for modifications in the second quarter of 2017, and guidance for non-employees’ payments in the second quarter of 2018.
The guidance had no impact in the consolidated financial results.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Revenue
The company accounts for a contract with a client when it has written approval, the contract is committed, the rights of the parties, including payment terms, are identified, the contract has commercial substance and consideration is probable of collection.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, control of a promised product or service transfers to a client, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring those products or services.
If the consideration promised in a contract includes a variable amount, the company estimates the amount to which it expects to be entitled using either the expected value or most likely amount method.
The company’s contracts may include terms that could cause variability in the transaction price, including, for example, rebates, volume discounts, service-level penalties, and performance bonuses or other forms of contingent revenue.
The company only includes estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
The company may not be able to reliably estimate contingent revenue in certain long-term arrangements due to uncertainties that are not expected to be resolved for a long period of time or when the company’s experience with similar types of contracts is limited.
The company’s arrangements infrequently include contingent revenue.
Estimates of variable consideration and the determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based on all information (historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available to the company, taking into consideration the type of client, the type of transaction and the specific facts and circumstances of each arrangement.
Changes in estimates of variable consideration are included in the disclosure on pages 20 and 21.
The company may include subcontractor services or third-party vendor equipment or software in certain integrated services arrangements.
In these types of arrangements, revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client and the vendor, and gross when the company is the principal for the transaction.
To determine whether the company is an agent or principal, the company considers whether it obtains control of the products or services before they are transferred to the customer.
In making this evaluation, several factors are considered, most notably whether the company has primary responsibility for fulfillment to the client, as well as inventory risk and pricing discretion.
The company recognizes revenue on sales to solution providers, resellers and distributors (herein referred to as “resellers”) when the reseller has economic substance apart from the company and the reseller is considered the principal for the transaction with the end-user client.
The company reports revenue net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions.
In addition to the aforementioned general policies, the following are the specific revenue recognition policies for arrangements with multiple performance obligations and for each major category of revenue.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Arrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations
· The client can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the client (that is, the product or service is capable of being distinct); and
· The company’s promise to transfer the product or service to the client is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract (that is, the product or service is distinct within the context of the contract).
To the extent the company grants the customer the option to acquire additional products or services in one of these arrangements, the company accounts for the option as a distinct performance obligation in the contract only if the option provides a material right to the customer that it would not receive without entering into the contract (e.g., a discount incremental to the range of discounts typically given for the product or service), in which case the client in effect pays in advance for the option to purchase future products or services.
The company recognizes revenue when those future products or services are transferred or when the option expires.
Services
The company’s primary services offerings include infrastructure services, including outsourcing, and other managed services; application management services; global process services (GPS); maintenance and support; and consulting, including the design and development of complex IT systems to a client’s specifications (e.g., design and build).
Many of these services can be delivered entirely or partially through cloud or as-a-Service delivery models.
The company’s services are provided on a time-and-material basis, as a fixed-price contract or as a fixed-price per measure of output contract and the contract terms range from less than one year to over 10 years.
In services arrangements, the company typically satisfies the performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time.
In design and build arrangements, the performance obligation is satisfied over time either because the client controls the asset as it is created (e.g., when the asset is built at the customer site) or because the company’s performance does not create an
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
asset with an alternative use and the company has an enforceable right to payment plus a reasonable profit for performance completed to date.
In most other services arrangements, the performance obligation is satisfied over time because the client simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the company performs the services.
In outsourcing, other managed services, application management, GPS and other cloud-based services arrangements, the company determines whether the services performed during the initial phases of the arrangement, such as setup activities, are distinct.
In most cases, the arrangement is a single performance obligation comprised of a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer (i.e., distinct days of service).
The company applies a measure of progress (typically time-based) to any fixed consideration and allocates variable consideration to the distinct periods of service based on usage.
As a result, revenue is generally recognized over the period the services are provided on a usage basis.
This results in revenue recognition that corresponds with the value to the client of the services transferred to date relative to the remaining services promised.
Revenue related to maintenance and support services and extended warranty is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of performance because the company is standing ready to provide services.
In fixed-price design and build contracts, revenue is recognized based on progress towards completion of the performance obligation using a cost-to-cost measure of progress (i.e., percentage-of-completion (POC) method of accounting).
Revenue is recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract.
Due to the nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of cost at completion is complex, subject to many variables and requires significant judgment.
Key factors reviewed by the company to estimate costs to complete each contract are future labor and product costs and expected productivity efficiencies.
If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made.
These revisions may result in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs, and such revisions are reflected in revenue on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the circumstances that gave rise to the revision become known by the company.
Refer to page 21 for the amount of revenue recognized in the reporting period on a cumulative catch-up basis (i.e., from performance obligations satisfied, or partially satisfied, in previous periods).
The company performs ongoing profitability analyses of its design and build services contracts accounted for using a cost-to-cost measure of progress in order to determine whether the latest estimates of revenues, costs and profits require updating.
If at any time these estimates indicate that the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately.
For other types of services contracts, any losses are recorded as incurred.
In some services contracts, the company bills the client prior to recognizing revenue from performing the services.
In other services contracts, the company performs the services prior to billing the client.
When the company performs services prior to billing the client in design and build contracts, the right to consideration is typically subject to milestone completion or client acceptance and the unbilled accounts receivable is classified as a contract asset.
Refer to page 85 of the company’s 2017 Annual Report for the amount of deferred income and unbilled accounts receivable at December 31, 2017 and 2016.
Billings usually occur in the month after the company performs the services or in accordance with specific contractual provisions.
Hardware
The company’s hardware offerings include the sale or lease of system servers and storage solutions.
These products can also be delivered through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models, such as Storage-as-a-Service.
The company also offers installation services for its more complex hardware products.
Hardware offerings are often sold with distinct maintenance services, described under the Services section above.
Revenue from hardware sales is recognized when control has transferred to the customer which typically occurs when the hardware has been shipped to the client, risk of loss has transferred to the client and the company has a present right to payment for the hardware.
In limited circumstances when a hardware sale includes client acceptance provisions, revenue is recognized either when client acceptance has been obtained, client acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the company has
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
objective evidence that the criteria specified in the client acceptance provisions have been satisfied.
Revenue from hardware sales-type leases is recognized at the beginning of the lease term.
Revenue from rentals and operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the rental or lease.
Revenue from as-a-Service arrangements is recognized either on a straight-line basis or on a usage basis as described in the Services section above.
Installation services are accounted for as distinct performance obligations with revenue recognized as the services are performed.
Any cost of standard warranties is accrued when the corresponding revenue is recognized.
Shipping and handling activities that occur after the client has obtained control of a product are accounted for as an activity to fulfill the promise to transfer the product rather than as an additional promised service and, therefore, no revenue is deferred and recognized over the shipping period.
Software
The company’s software offerings include solutions software, which contains many of the company’s strategic areas including analytics, data and security; transaction processing software, which primarily runs mission-critical systems for clients; integration software, which helps clients to create, connect and optimize their applications data and infrastructure; and, operating systems software, which provides operating systems for IBM Z and Power Systems hardware.
Many of these offerings can be delivered entirely or partially through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models, while others are delivered as on-premise software licenses.
Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the client, if the software license is distinct from the post-contract support offered by the company.
In limited circumstances, when the software requires continuous updates to provide the intended functionality, the software license and post-contract support are not distinct and revenue for the single performance obligation is recognized over time as the post-contract support is provided.
This is only applicable to certain security software perpetual licenses offered by the company.
Prior to the adoption of the new revenue standard, the company recognized revenue for these software licenses at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement.
This change did not have a material impact on the company’s financial statements.
Revenue from post-contract support is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis because the company is providing a service of standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed, and is providing unspecified software upgrades on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term.
Revenue from software hosting or Software-as-a-Service arrangements is recognized either on a straight-line basis or on a usage basis as described in the Services section above.
In software hosting arrangements, the rights provided to the client (e.g., ownership of a license, contract termination provisions and the feasibility of the client to operate the software) are considered in determining whether the arrangement includes a license.
In arrangements that include a software license, the associated revenue is recognized in accordance with the software license recognition policy above rather than over time as a service.
Revenue from term license software is recognized at a point in time for the committed term of the contract (which is typically one month due to client termination rights).
However, if the amount of consideration to be paid in exchange for the license depends on client usage, revenue is recognized when the usage occurs.
Financing
Financing income attributable to sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans is recognized on the accrual basis using the effective interest method.
Operating lease income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Standalone Selling Price
The company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price basis.
The standalone selling price (SSP) is the price at which the company would sell a promised product or service separately to a client.
In most cases, the company is able to establish SSP based on the observable prices of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances to similar clients.
The company typically establishes a standalone selling price range for its products and services which are reassessed on a periodic basis or when facts and circumstances change.
In certain instances, the company may not be able to establish a standalone selling price range based on observable prices and the company estimates the standalone selling price.
The company estimates SSP by considering multiple factors
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
including, but not limited to, overall market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, competitor actions, internal costs, profit objectives and pricing practices.
Additionally, in certain circumstances, the company may estimate SSP for a product or service by applying the residual approach.
This approach has been most commonly used when certain perpetual software licenses are only sold bundled with one year of post-contract support and a price has not been established for the software.
Estimating SSP is a formal process that includes review and approval by the company’s management.
Services Costs
Recurring operating costs for services contracts are recognized as incurred.
For fixed-price design and build contracts, the costs of external hardware and software accounted for under the cost-to-cost measure of progress are deferred and recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date (i.e., the measure of progress), as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract as control transfers over time for these performance obligations.
Certain eligible, nonrecurring costs incurred in the initial phases of outsourcing contracts and other cloud-based services contracts (i.e., setup costs) are capitalized when the costs relate directly to the contract, the costs generate or enhance resources of the company that will be used in satisfying the performance obligation in the future, and the costs are expected to be recovered.
These costs consist of transition and setup costs related to the installation of systems and processes and other deferred fulfillment costs, including, prepaid assets used in services contracts (i.e., prepaid software or prepaid maintenance), and other deferred fulfillment costs eligible for capitalization.
Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, which includes anticipated contract renewals or extensions, consistent with the transfer to the client of the services to which the asset relates.
Additionally, fixed assets associated with these contracts are capitalized and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the asset.
If an asset is contract specific, then the depreciation period is the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the contract term.
Amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing arrangements are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis as a reduction of revenue over the expected period of benefit.
The company performs periodic reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred contract transition and setup costs.
This review is done by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the remaining amount of consideration the company expects to receive for the services to which the asset relates, less the costs that relate directly to providing those services that have not yet been recognized.
If the carrying amount is deemed not recoverable, an impairment loss is recognized.
In situations in which an outsourcing contract is terminated, the terms of the contract may require the client to reimburse the company for the recovery of unbilled accounts receivable, unamortized deferred costs incurred to purchase specific assets utilized in the delivery of services and to pay any additional costs incurred by the company to transition the services.
Software Costs
Certain eligible, non-recurring costs incurred in the initial phases of Software-as-a-Service contracts are deferred and amortized over the expected period of benefit, which includes anticipated contract renewals or extensions, consistent with the policy described for Services Costs.
Recurring operating costs in these contracts are recognized as incurred.
Incremental Costs of Obtaining a Contract
Incremental costs of obtaining a contract (e.g., sales commissions) are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected customer relationship period if the company expects to recover those costs.
The company previously expensed these costs as incurred.
The expected customer relationship is determined based on the average customer relationship period, including expected renewals, for each offering type and ranges from three to six years.
Expected renewal periods are only included in the expected customer relationship period if commission amounts paid upon renewal are not commensurate with amounts paid on the initial contract.
Incremental costs of obtaining a contract include only those costs the company incurs to obtain a contract that it would not have incurred if the contract had not been obtained.
The company has determined that certain commissions programs meet the requirements to be capitalized.
Some commission programs are not subject to capitalization as the commission expense is paid and recognized as the related revenue is recognized.
Additionally, as a practical expedient, the company expenses costs to obtain a contract as incurred if the amortization period would have been a year or less.
These costs are included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
Product Warranties
The company offers warranties for its hardware products that generally range up to three years, with the majority being either one or three years.
Estimated costs for standard warranty terms are recognized when revenue is recorded for the related product.
The company estimates its warranty costs standard to the product based on historical warranty claim experience and
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
estimates of future spending, and applies this estimate to the revenue stream for products under warranty.
Estimated future costs for warranties applicable to revenue recognized in the current period are charged to cost of sales.
The warranty liability is reviewed quarterly to verify that it properly reflects the remaining obligation based on the anticipated expenditures over the balance of the obligation period.
Adjustments are made when actual warranty claim experience differs from estimates.
Costs from fixed-price support or maintenance contracts, including extended warranty contracts, are recognized as incurred.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is initially recorded as deferred income and subsequently recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery period because the company is providing a service of standing ready to provide services over such term.
Contract Assets and Notes and Accounts Receivable—Trade
The company classifies the right to consideration in exchange for products or services transferred to a client as either a receivable or a contract asset.
A receivable is a right to consideration that is unconditional as compared to a contract asset which is a right to consideration that is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time.
The majority of the company’s contract assets represent unbilled amounts related to design and build services contracts when the cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition is utilized, revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the client, and the right to consideration is subject to milestone completion or client acceptance.
Contract assets are generally classified as current and are recorded on a net basis with deferred income (i.e., contract liabilities) at the contract level.
At January 1, 2018 and September 30, 2018 contract assets of $557 million and $510 million, respectively, are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
At December 31, 2017, these assets were classified as notes and accounts receivable-trade in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
An allowance for contract assets, if needed, and uncollectible trade receivables is estimated based on a combination of write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known troubled accounts.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Disaggregation of Revenue
Revenue by Geography
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Revenue by Geography
Remaining Performance Obligations
The remaining performance obligation (RPO) disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be recognized as of the end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the company expects to recognize these amounts in revenue.
It is intended to be a statement of overall work under contract that has not yet been performed and does not include contracts in which the customer is not committed, such as certain as-a-Service, governmental, term software license and services offerings.
The customer is not considered committed when they are able to terminate for convenience without payment of a substantive penalty.
The disclosure includes estimates of variable consideration, except when the variable consideration is a sales-based or usage-based royalty promised in exchange for a license of intellectual property.
Additionally, as a practical expedient, the company does not include contracts that have an original duration of one year or less.
Remaining performance obligation estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustment for revenue that has not materialized and adjustments for currency.
At September 30, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to RPO related to customer contracts that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied was $119 billion.
Given the profile of contract terms, approximately 60 percent of this amount is expected to be recognized as revenue over the next two years, approximately 35 percent between three and five years and the balance (mostly Infrastructure Services) thereafter.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Revenue Recognized for Performance Obligations Satisfied (or Partially Satisfied) in Prior Periods
For the three and nine months ending September 30, 2018, revenue was reduced by $25 million and $50 million, respectively, for performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods mainly due to changes in estimates on percentage-of-completion based contracts.
Refer to pages 14 and 15 for additional information on percentage-of-completion contracts and estimates of costs to complete.
Reconciliation of Contract Balances
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended September 30, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at July 1, 2018 was $3.8 billion and primarily relates to services and software.
The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at January 1, 2018 was $8.0 billion and primarily relates to services and software.
Deferred Costs
On January 1, 2018, in accordance with the transition guidance, $737 million of in-scope sales commissions that were previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized as costs to obtain a contract.
The amount of total deferred costs amortized during the quarter ended September 30, 2018 was $929 million.
There were no material impairment losses incurred during the period.
Refer to page 17 for additional information on deferred costs to fulfill a contract and capitalized costs of obtaining a contract.
Transition Disclosures
In accordance with the modified retrospective method transition requirements, the company will present the financial statement line items impacted and adjusted to compare to presentation under the prior GAAP for each of the interim and annual periods during the first year of adoption of the new revenue standard.
The following tables summarize the impacts as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The impacts to adjust to prior GAAP are primarily the result of the transition adjustments recorded at adoption.
Current period impacts were not material.
Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes,” for additional information on the transition adjustments.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Consolidated Statement of Earnings Impacts
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Impacts
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Impacts
Fair Value Measurements
· Level 1—Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that can be accessed at the measurement date;
· Level 2—Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and
· Level 3—Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The guidance requires the use of observable market data if such data is available without undue cost and effort.
When available, the company uses unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets to measure the fair value and classifies such items as Level 1.
If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that use current market-based or independently sourced market parameters such as interest rates and currency rates.
Items valued using internally generated models are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver that is significant to the valuation.
The determination of fair value considers various factors including interest rate yield curves and time value underlying the financial instruments.
For derivatives and debt securities, the company uses a discounted cash flow analysis using discount rates commensurate with the duration of the instrument.
· Counterparty credit risk adjustments are applied to financial instruments, taking into account the actual credit risk of a counterparty as observed in the credit default swap market to determine the true fair value of such an instrument.
· Credit risk adjustments are applied to reflect the company’s own credit risk when valuing all liabilities measured at fair value.
The methodology is consistent with that applied in developing counterparty credit risk adjustments, but incorporates the company’s own credit risk as observed in the credit default swap market.
As an example, the fair value of derivatives is derived utilizing a discounted cash flow model that uses observable market inputs such as known notional value amounts, yield curves, spot and forward exchange rates as well as discount rates.
These inputs relate to liquid, heavily traded currencies with active markets which are available for the full term of the derivative.
Certain assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis can be subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements.
These assets include available-for-sale debt securities that are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired.
In the event of an other-than-temporary impairment of a debt security, fair value is measured using a model described above.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Certain non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, land, goodwill and intangible assets are also subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements if they are deemed to be impaired.
The impairment models used for nonfinancial assets depend on the type of asset.
There were no material impairments of non-financial assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Accounting guidance permits the measurement of eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards.
This election is irrevocable.
The company has not applied the fair value option to any eligible assets or liabilities.
Effective January 1, 2018, the company adopted the new FASB guidance on recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments using the cumulative catch-up transition method.
Under the new standard, the company measures equity investments at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
Based on the method of adoption, prior year information has not been updated to conform with the new guidance.
Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes,” for further information.
The following tables present the company’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Financial Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value
Short-Term Receivables and Payables
Notes and other accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value.
Accounts payable, other accrued expenses and short-term debt (excluding the current portion of long-term debt) are financial liabilities with carrying values that approximate fair value.
If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, except for short-term debt, which would be classified as Level 2.
Loans and Long-Term Receivables
Fair values are based on discounted future cash flows using current interest rates offered for similar loans to clients with similar credit ratings for the same remaining maturities.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value for loans and long-term receivables was immaterial.
If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Long-Term Debt
Fair value of publicly-traded long-term debt is based on quoted market prices for the identical liability when traded as an asset in an active market.
For other long-term debt for which a quoted market price is not available, an expected present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities is used to estimate fair value.
The carrying amount of long-term debt was $35,989 million and $39,837 million, and the estimated fair value was $37,636 million and $42,264 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
If measured at fair value in the financial statements, long-term debt (including the current portion) would be classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Available-for-sale Securities
The contractual maturities of substantially all available-for-sale debt securities are less than one year at September 30, 2018.
Derivative Financial Instruments
The company operates in multiple functional currencies and is a significant lender and borrower in the global markets.
In the normal course of business, the company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, and to a lesser extent equity and commodity price changes and client credit risk.
The company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives, and, where cost effective, financing with debt in the currencies in which assets are denominated.
For interest rate exposures, derivatives are used to better align rate movements between the interest rates associated with the company’s lease and other financial assets and the interest rates associated with its financing debt.
Derivatives are also used to manage the related cost of debt.
For foreign currency exposures, derivatives are used to better manage the cash flow volatility arising from foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
As a result of the use of derivative instruments, the company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations.
To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, the company has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based upon their overall credit profile.
The company’s established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk on principal transactions include reviewing and establishing limits for credit exposure and continually assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties.
The right of set-off that exists under certain of these arrangements enables the legal entities of the company subject to the arrangement to net amounts due to and from the counterparty reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default.
The company is also a party to collateral security arrangements with most of its major derivative counterparties.
These arrangements require the company to hold or post collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury securities) when the derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds.
Posting thresholds can be fixed or can vary based on credit default swap pricing or credit ratings received from the major credit agencies.
The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments under these collateralized arrangements that were in a liability position at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $120 million and $126 million, respectively, for which no collateral was posted at either date.
Full collateralization of these agreements would be required in the event that the company’s credit rating falls below investment grade or if its credit default swap spread exceeds 250 basis points, as applicable, pursuant to the terms of the collateral security arrangements.
The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in asset positions at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $694 million and $942 million, respectively.
This amount represents the maximum exposure to loss at the reporting date if the counterparties failed to perform as contracted.
This exposure was reduced by $285 million and $255 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, of liabilities included in master netting arrangements with those counterparties.
Additionally, at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, this exposure was reduced by $11 million and $114 million of cash collateral, respectively.
There were no non-cash collateral balances in U.S. Treasury securities at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net exposure related to derivative assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $398 million and $572 million, respectively.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net position related to derivative liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $130 million and $160 million, respectively.
In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the company does not offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments.
No amount was recognized in other receivables at September 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017 for the right to reclaim cash collateral.
The amount recognized in accounts payable for the obligation to return cash collateral was $11 million and $114 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The company restricts the use of cash collateral received to rehypothecation, and therefore reports it in restricted cash in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
No amount was rehypothecated at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
The company may employ derivative instruments to hedge the volatility in stockholders’ equity resulting from changes in currency exchange rates of significant foreign subsidiaries of the company with respect to the U.S. dollar.
These instruments, designated as net investment hedges, expose the company to liquidity risk as the derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity which is not offset by a cash flow from the translation of the underlying hedged equity.
The company monitors this cash loss potential on an ongoing basis and may discontinue some of these hedging relationships by de-designating or terminating the derivative instrument in order to manage the liquidity risk.
Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company may utilize derivatives to offset the changes in the fair value of the de-designated instruments from the date of de-designation until maturity.
In its hedging programs, the company uses forward contracts, futures contracts, interest-rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, and options depending upon the underlying exposure.
The company is not a party to leveraged derivative instruments.
A brief description of the major hedging programs, categorized by underlying risk, follows.
Interest Rate Risk
Fixed and Variable Rate Borrowings
The company issues debt in the global capital markets to fund its operations and financing business.
Access to cost-effective financing can result in interest rate mismatches with the underlying assets.
To manage these mismatches and to reduce overall interest cost, the company may use interest-rate swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt issuances into variable-rate debt (i.e., fair value hedges) and to convert specific variable-rate debt issuances into fixed-rate debt (i.e., cash flow hedges).
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of the company’s interest rate swaps was $9.9 billion and $9.1 billion, respectively.
The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was approximately 4.3 years and 4.8 years, respectively.
These interest-rate contracts were accounted for as fair value hedges.
The company did not have any cash flow hedges relating to this program outstanding at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Forecasted Debt Issuance
The company is exposed to interest rate volatility on future debt issuances.
To manage this risk, the company may use forward starting interest-rate swaps to lock in the rate on the interest payments related to the forecasted debt issuance.
These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Foreign Exchange Risk
Long-Term Investments in Foreign Subsidiaries (Net Investment)
A large portion of the company’s foreign currency denominated debt portfolio is designated as a hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the functional currency of major foreign subsidiaries with respect to the U.S. dollar.
The company also uses cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts for this risk management purpose.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges was $6.4 billion and $7.0 billion, respectively.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments was approximately 0.2 years at both periods.
Anticipated Royalties and Cost Transactions
The company’s operations generate significant nonfunctional currency, third-party vendor payments and intercompany payments for royalties and goods and services among the company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the company.
In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its currency risk.
These forward contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is four years.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost transactions was $9.2 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively.
The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was 0.7 years at both periods.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, in connection with cash flow hedges of anticipated royalties and cost transactions, the company recorded net gains of $202 million and net gains of $27 million (before taxes), respectively, in AOCI.
The company estimates that $199 million (before taxes) of deferred net gains on derivatives in AOCI at September 30, 2018, will be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions.
Foreign Currency Denominated Borrowings
The company is exposed to exchange rate volatility on foreign currency denominated debt.
To manage this risk, the company employs cross-currency swaps to convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity.
These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is approximately ten years.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of cross-currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated debt was $6.5 billion at both periods.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, in connection with cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated borrowings, the company recorded net gains of $141 million and net gains of $42 million (before taxes), respectively, in AOCI.
The company estimates that $202 million (before taxes) of deferred net gains on derivatives in AOCI at September 30, 2018, will be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying exposure.
The company uses its Global Treasury Centers to manage the cash of its subsidiaries.
These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash flows in a cost-effective manner.
In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company’s nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities.
The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less than one year.
The changes in the fair values of these contracts and of the underlying hedged exposures are generally offsetting and are recorded in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of foreign currency exposure was $7.6 billion and $11.5 billion, respectively.
Equity Risk Management
Other Risks
The company may hold warrants to purchase shares of common stock in connection with various investments that are deemed derivatives because they contain net share or net cash settlement provisions.
The company records the changes in the fair value of these warrants in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The company did not have any warrants qualifying as derivatives outstanding at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
The company is exposed to a potential loss if a client fails to pay amounts due under contractual terms.
The company may utilize credit default swaps to economically hedge its credit exposures.
The swaps are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
The company is exposed to market volatility on certain investment securities.
The company may utilize options or forwards to economically hedge its market exposure.
The derivatives are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding.
The following tables provide a quantitative summary of the derivative and non-derivative instrument-related risk management activity at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, as well as for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Fair Values of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
The Effect of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings
Prior period gain or loss amounts and presentation are not conformed to the new hedge accounting guidance that the company adopted in 2018.
Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes,” for further information.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Prior period gain or loss amounts and presentation are not conformed to the new hedge accounting guidance that the company adopted in 2018.
Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes,” for further information.
For the three and nine months ending September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were no material gains or losses excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (for fair value or cash flow hedges), or associated with an underlying exposure that did not or was not expected to occur (for cash flow hedges); nor are there any anticipated in the normal course of business.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
The company utilizes certain of its financing receivables as collateral for nonrecourse borrowings.
Financing receivables pledged as collateral for borrowings were $754 million and $773 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The company did not have any financing receivables held for sale as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Financing Receivables by Portfolio Segment
Write-offs of lease receivables and loan receivables were $6 million and $3 million, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Provisions for credit losses recorded for lease receivables and loan receivables were $4 million and $17 million, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The average recorded investment of impaired leases and loans for Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific was $143 million, $56 million and $76 million, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and $156 million, $31 million and $101 million, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Both interest income recognized and interest income recognized on a cash basis on impaired leases and loans were immaterial for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
The average recorded investment of impaired leases and loans for Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific was $136 million, $56 million and $79 million, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and $165 million, $27 million and $131 million, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Both interest income recognized and interest income recognized on a cash basis on impaired leases and loans were immaterial for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Write-offs of lease receivables and loan receivables were $55 million and $82 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Provisions for credit losses recorded for lease receivables and loan receivables were $9 million and $7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
When determining the allowances, financing receivables are evaluated either on an individual or a collective basis.
For individually evaluated receivables, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss.
For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific reserve.
The company considers any receivable with an individually evaluated reserve as an impaired receivable.
Past Due Financing Receivables
The company considers a client’s financing receivable balance past due when any installment is aged over 90 days.
The following table summarizes information about the recorded investment in lease and loan financing receivables, including recorded investments aged over 90 days and still accruing, billed invoices aged over 90 days and recorded investment not accruing.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Credit Quality Indicators
The company’s credit quality indicators, which are based on rating agency data, publicly available information and information provided by customers, are reviewed periodically based on the relative level of risk.
The resulting indicators are a numerical rating system that maps to Moody’s Investors Service credit ratings as shown below.
The company uses information provided by Moody’s, where available, as one of many inputs in its determination of customer credit ratings.
The following tables present the recorded investment net of allowance for credit losses for each class of receivables, by credit quality indicator, at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Receivables with a credit quality indicator ranging from Aaa to Baa3 are considered investment grade.
All others are considered non-investment grade.
The credit quality indicators do not reflect mitigation actions that the company takes to transfer credit risk to third parties.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Troubled Debt Restructurings
The company did not have any significant troubled debt restructurings during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 or for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Pre-tax stock-based compensation cost for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $6 million compared to the corresponding period in the prior year.
This was due to increases related to performance share units ($8 million) partially offset by decreases in restricted stock units ($1 million), and the conversion of stock-based awards previously issued by acquired entities ($1 million).
Pre-tax stock-based compensation cost for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 decreased $17 million compared to the corresponding period in the prior year.
This was due to decreases related to restricted stock units ($13 million), and the conversion of stock-based awards previously issued by acquired entities ($4 million).
As of September 30, 2018, the total unrecognized compensation cost of $805 million related to non-vested awards was expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.5 years.
There was no significant capitalized stock-based compensation cost at September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
SEGMENT INFORMATION
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
SEGMENT INFORMATION
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Reclassifications and Taxes Related to Items of Other Comprehensive Income
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Reclassifications and Taxes Related to Items of Other Comprehensive Income
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Reclassifications and Taxes Related to Items of Other Comprehensive Income
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Reclassifications and Taxes Related to Items of Other Comprehensive Income
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
In 2018, the company expects to contribute approximately $400 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit and multi-employer plans, the largest of which will be contributed to the defined benefit pension plans in the UK, Japan and Spain.
This amount generally represents the legally mandated minimum contribution.
Total net contributions to the non-U.S. plans in the first nine months of 2018 were $275 million, of which $117 million was in cash and $157 million in U.S. Treasury securities.
Total contributions to the non-U.S. plans in the first nine months of 2017 were $301 million, of which $124 million was in cash and $176 million in U.S. Treasury securities.
The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
The following table provides the components of the cost for the company’s nonpension postretirement plans.
Cost of Nonpension Postretirement Plans
The company contributed $275 million in U.S. Treasury securities to the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and $259 million in U.S. Treasury securities during the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Each acquisition is expected to enhance the company’s portfolio of product and services capabilities.
Armanta is a provider of aggregation and analytics software to financial institutions, enabling data aggregation across multiple systems in near real-time speed, enhancing decision-making and improving regulatory compliance.
Oniqua is a global innovator in maintenance-repair-operate inventory optimization solutions and services for asset-intensive industries.
All of these acquisitions were for 100 percent of the acquired businesses.
The acquisitions were accounted for as business combinations using the acquisition method, and accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired entity were recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.
The acquisitions did not have a material impact in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
The net carrying amount of intangible assets decreased $608 million during the first nine months of 2018, primarily due to intangible asset amortization, partially offset by additions resulting from capitalized software.
The aggregate intangible amortization expense was $348 million and $1,031 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, versus $383 million and $1,161 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively.
In addition, in the first nine months of 2018, the company retired $612 million of fully amortized intangible assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by this amount.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
There were no goodwill impairment losses recorded during the first nine months of 2018 or the full year of 2017 and the company has no accumulated impairment losses.
Purchase price adjustments recorded in the first nine months of 2018 and full year 2017 were related to acquisitions that were still subject to the measurement period that ends at the earlier of 12 months from the acquisition date or when information becomes available.
Net purchase price adjustments recorded during the first nine months of 2018 were not material.
Net purchase price adjustments of $38 million were recorded during 2017, with the primary drivers being deferred tax assets, other taxes payable and other current liabilities associated with the Truven Health Analytics, Inc. and The Weather Company acquisitions.
Short-Term Debt
The weighted-average interest rate for commercial paper at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was 2.2 percent and 1.5 percent, respectively.
The weighted-average interest rate for short-term loans was 8.3 percent and 8.8 percent at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Long-Term Debt
Pre-Swap Borrowing
There are no debt securities issued and outstanding by IBM International Group Capital LLC, which is an indirect, 100 percent owned finance subsidiary of International Business Machines Corporation, the parent.
Any debt securities issued by IBM International Group Capital LLC, would be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the parent.
During the third quarter of 2017, IBM Credit LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the company, filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) allowing it to offer for sale public debt securities.
In 2017, IBM Credit LLC issued fixed- and floating-rate debt securities in the aggregate amount of $3.0 billion with maturity dates ranging from 2019 to 2022.
During the first quarter of 2018, IBM Credit LLC issued fixed- and floating-rate debt securities in the aggregate amount of $2.0 billion with maturity dates ranging from 2021 to 2023.
This debt is included in the long-term debt table above.
The company’s indenture governing its debt securities and its various credit facilities each contain significant covenants which obligate the company to promptly pay principal and interest, limit the aggregate amount of secured indebtedness and
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
sale and leaseback transactions to 10 percent of the company’s consolidated net tangible assets, and restrict the company’s ability to merge or consolidate unless certain conditions are met.
The credit facilities also include a covenant on the company’s consolidated net interest expense ratio, which cannot be less than 2.20 to 1.0, as well as a cross default provision with respect to other defaulted indebtedness of at least $500 million.
The company is in compliance with all of its significant debt covenants and provides periodic certifications to its lenders.
The failure to comply with its debt covenants could constitute an event of default with respect to the debt to which such provisions apply.
If certain events of default were to occur, the principal and interest on the debt to which such event of default applied would become immediately due and payable.
Interest on Debt
Lines of Credit
On July 19, 2018, the company amended its existing $10.25 billion Five-Year Credit Agreement.
In addition, the company and IBM Credit LLC entered into a new $2.5 billion, 364-Day Credit Agreement, to replace the maturing $2.5 billion, 364-Day agreement, and also amended the existing $2.5 billion Three-Year Credit Agreement.
The amended Five-Year and Three-Year credit agreements included a modification of terms to account for the potential discontinuation of LIBOR and to extend the maturity dates.
The new maturity dates for the Five-Year and Three-Year Credit Agreements are July 20, 2023 and July 20, 2021, respectively.
Each of the facility sizes remained unchanged.
As of September 30, 2018, there were no borrowings by the company, or its subsidiaries, under these credit facilities.
The company records a provision with respect to a claim, suit, investigation or proceeding when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
Any recorded liabilities, including any
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
changes to such liabilities for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In accordance with the relevant accounting guidance, the company provides disclosures of matters for which the likelihood of material loss is at least reasonably possible.
In addition, the company also discloses matters based on its consideration of other matters and qualitative factors, including the experience of other companies in the industry, and investor, customer and employee relations considerations.
The following is a summary of the more significant legal matters involving the company.
On May 13, 2010, IBM and the State of Indiana (acting on behalf of the Indiana Family and Social Services Administration) sued one another in a dispute over a 2006 contract regarding the modernization of social service program processing in Indiana.
After six weeks of trial, on July 18, 2012, the Indiana Superior Court in Marion County rejected the State’s claims in their entirety and awarded IBM $52 million plus interest and costs.
On February 13, 2014, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed portions of the trial judge’s findings, found IBM in material breach, and ordered the case remanded to the trial judge to determine the State’s damages, if any.
The Indiana Court of Appeals also affirmed approximately $50 million of the trial court’s award of damages to IBM.
On March 22, 2016, the Indiana Supreme Court affirmed the outcome of the Indiana Court of Appeals and remanded the case to the Indiana Superior Court.
On August 7, 2017, the Indiana Superior Court awarded the State $128 million, which it then offset against IBM’s previously affirmed award of $50 million, resulting in a $78 million award to the State, plus interest.
On September 28, 2018, the Indiana Court of Appeals affirmed the Superior Court’s $78 million award to the State, but reversed the Superior Court by awarding IBM prejudgment interest on
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
its previously affirmed $50 million award.
Both parties have appealed to the Indiana Supreme Court and the matter remains pending.
On March 9, 2017, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania’s Department of Labor and Industry sued IBM in Pennsylvania state court regarding a 2006 contract for the development of a custom software system to manage the Commonwealth’s unemployment insurance benefits programs.
The matter is pending in a Pennsylvania court.
On October 29, 2013, Bridgestone Americas, Inc. (Bridgestone) sued IBM regarding a 2009 contract for the implementation of an SAP-based, enterprise-wide order management system.
IBM counterclaimed against Bridgestone and its parent, Bridgestone Corp. IBM and Bridgestone have resolved the case and all claims have been dismissed.
Following the 2017 final judgment of the Appeal Court in London holding that IBM UK acted lawfully in 2010 in closing its UK defined benefit plans to future accruals for most participants and in implementing a new retirement policy, the Employment Tribunal in Southampton UK is expected to address approximately 290 individual actions alleging constructive dismissal and age discrimination brought against IBM UK in 2010 by employees who left the company at that time.
The individual actions were previously stayed.
In May 2015, a putative class action was commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York related to the company’s October 2014 announcement that it was divesting its global commercial semiconductor technology business, alleging violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”).
Management’s Retirement Plans Committee and three current or former IBM executives are named as defendants.
On September 29, 2017, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the first amended complaint.
Plaintiffs appealed to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals and the matter remains pending.
In August 2015, IBM learned that the SEC was conducting an investigation relating to revenue recognition with respect to the accounting treatment of certain transactions in the U.S., UK and Ireland.
The company cooperated with the SEC in this matter.
In May 2018, the SEC informed IBM that based on the information to date, it closed its investigation into this matter without pursuing any enforcement action against the company.
The company is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. federal or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as “Superfund,” or laws similar to CERCLA.
Such statutes require potentially responsible parties to participate in remediation activities regardless of fault or ownership of sites.
The company is also conducting environmental investigations, assessments or remediations at or in the vicinity of several current or former operating sites globally pursuant to permits, administrative orders or agreements with country, state or local environmental agencies, and is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning certain current or former operating sites.
The company is also subject to ongoing tax examinations and governmental assessments in various jurisdictions.
Along with many other U.S. companies doing business in Brazil, the company is involved in various challenges with Brazilian tax authorities regarding non-income tax assessments and non-income tax litigation matters.
The total potential amount related to all these matters for all applicable years is approximately $900 million.
The company believes it will prevail on these matters and that this amount is not a meaningful indicator of liability.
The company has applied the guidance requiring a guarantor to disclose certain types of guarantees, even if the likelihood of requiring the guarantor’s performance is remote.
The following is a description of arrangements in which the company is the guarantor.
The company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters.
Typically, these obligations arise in the context of contracts entered into by the company, under which the company customarily agrees to hold the party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations and covenants related to such matters as title to the assets sold, certain intellectual property (IP) rights, specified environmental matters, third-party performance of nonfinancial contractual obligations and certain income taxes.
In each of these circumstances, payment by the company is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, the procedures of which typically allow the company to challenge the other
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of the company’s obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
Historically, payments made by the company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.
In addition, the company guarantees certain loans and financial commitments.
The maximum potential future payment under these financial guarantees was $15 million and $19 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The fair value of the guarantees recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is not material.
Changes in the company’s warranty liability for standard warranties and deferred income for extended warranty are
presented in the following tables.
Standard Warranty Liability
Extended Warranty Liability
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
In the third quarter of 2018, the IRS commenced its audit of the company’s U.S. tax returns for 2015 and 2016.
The company anticipates that this audit will be completed in 2020.
The amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2017 decreased $892 million in the first nine months of 2018 to $6,139 million.
The decrease was primarily driven by the resolution of certain tax matters in the first quarter related to the U.S. audits.
The liability at September 30, 2018 of $6,139 million can be reduced by $599 million of offsetting tax benefits associated with timing adjustments, U.S. tax credits, potential transfer pricing adjustments and state income taxes.
The net amount of $5,540 million, if recognized, would favorably affect the company’s effective tax rate.
The company is involved in a number of income tax-related matters in India challenging tax assessments issued by the India Tax Authorities.
As of September 30, 2018, the company has recorded $636 million as prepaid income taxes in India.
A significant portion of this balance represents cash tax deposits paid over time to protect the company’s right to appeal various income tax assessments made by the India Tax Authorities.
The company believes it will prevail on these matters.
U.S. Tax Reform
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted.
U.S. tax reform introduced many changes, including lowering the U.S. corporate tax rate to 21 percent, changes in incentives, provisions to prevent U.S. base erosion and significant changes in the taxation of international income, including provisions which allow for the repatriation of foreign earnings without U.S. tax.
The enactment of U.S. tax reform resulted in the company recording a provisional tax expense charge of $5,475 million in the fourth-quarter and year-ended December 31, 2017.
This charge was the result of the one-time U.S. transition tax and any foreign tax costs on undistributed foreign earnings, as well as the remeasurement of deferred tax balances to the new U.S. federal tax rate.
All components of the provisional charge of $5,475 million were based on the company’s estimates as of December 31, 2017.
Specifically, the transition tax, any foreign tax costs, as well as the remeasurement of deferred tax balances are provisional and were calculated based on existing tax law and the best information available as of the date of estimate.
The effect of U.S. tax reform changes on deferred tax assets and liabilities was a benefit of $270 million and was included in the one-time charge.
An additional provisional charge of $107 million was recorded in the first quarter as a result of IRS guidance issued in January 2018 and a benefit of $14 million was recorded in the second quarter as a result of IRS guidance issued in early April 2018.
The final impact of U.S. tax reform may differ, possibly materially, due to factors such as changes in interpretations and assumptions that the company has made in its assessment, conclusion of the effects of the “Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income” (“GILTI”) provisions, further refinement of the company’s calculations, additional guidance that may be issued by the U.S. government, among other items.
The company is still evaluating the Act’s GILTI provisions and has not yet elected an accounting policy.
The company has not completed its assessment and the tax charge remains provisional as of September 30, 2018.
The charge will be finalized in the fourth quarter of 2018 which is within the 12-month time limit provided by the SEC.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Stock options to purchase 388,335 shares and 399,844 shares were outstanding as of September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options’ exercise price during the respective period was greater than the average market price of the common shares, and, therefore, the effect would have been antidilutive.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
Stock options to purchase 264,628 shares and 146,795 shares (average of first, second and third quarter share amounts) were outstanding as of September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options’ exercise price during the respective periods was greater than the average market price of the common shares, and, therefore, the effect would have been antidilutive.
Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)
On October 30, 2018, the company announced that the Board of Directors authorized $4.0 billion in additional funds for use in the company’s stock repurchase program.
On October 28, 2018, the company announced its intent to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Red Hat, Inc. (Red Hat).
The combination of Red Hat’s vast portfolio of open-source technologies, innovative cloud development platform and developer community combined with IBM’s innovative hybrid cloud technology, industry expertise and commitment to data, trust and security will bring clients the hybrid, multi-cloud capabilities they are demanding.
Under the terms of the definitive agreement, Red Hat shareholders will receive $190 per share in cash.
The transaction values Red Hat at approximately $34 billion.
The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory clearance and approval by the Red Hat shareholders.
In connection with the proposed transaction, IBM has entered into a commitment letter pursuant to which certain banks have committed to provide a 364-day bridge loan credit facility in an amount of $20 billion in support of the transaction.
At signing, the company has ample cash, credit and bridge lines to secure the transaction financing.
The company intends to close the transaction through a combination of cash and debt.
IBM will continue with a disciplined financial policy and is committed to continued dividend growth and maintaining strong investment grade credit ratings.
As a result of the proposed transaction, the company expects the major rating agencies to downgrade IBM and IBM Credit LLC long-term debt securities by one rating.
Standard and Poor’s has lowered IBM and IBM Credit’s long-term debt rating one notch to A from A+, with no change to the short-term debt rating of A-1.
The other major rating agencies are reviewing the companies’ ratings.
In addition, the company intends to suspend its share repurchase program in 2020 and 2021.
Table of Contents
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
Refer to note 13, “Contingencies,” on pages 49 to 51 of this Form 10-Q.
