Item 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
 OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2019
Snapshot
nm - not meaningful
Effective with the first quarter of 2019, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system.
As a result of these changes, the company revised its reportable segments.
There is no change to the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Refer to note 8, “Segments” on pages 35 to 36 for additional information on the changes in reportable segments.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
The references to “adjusted for currency” or “at constant currency” in the Management Discussion do not include operational impacts that could result from fluctuations in foreign currency rates.
When the company refers to growth rates at constant currency or adjusts such growth rates for currency, it is done so that certain financial results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of its business performance.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
This approach is used for countries where the functional currency is the local currency.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Refer to “Currency Rate Fluctuations” on page 71 for additional information.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
Overall, the company believes that providing investors with a view of operating earnings as described above provides increased transparency and clarity into both the operational results of the business and the performance of the company’s pension plans; improves visibility to management decisions and their impacts on operational performance; enables better comparison to peer companies; and allows the company to provide a long-term strategic view of the business going forward.
The company’s reportable segment financial results reflect pre-tax operating earnings from continuing operations, consistent with the company’s management and measurement system.
The following table provides the company’s operating (non-GAAP) earnings for the first quarter of 2019 and 2018.
nm - not meaningful
In the first quarter of 2019, the company reported $18.2 billion in revenue, $1.6 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.0 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.78 as reported and $2.25 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company also generated $4.8 billion in cash from operations, $1.7 billion in free cash flow and delivered shareholder returns of $2.3 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
As the company continued to optimize its portfolio and invest in emerging, high-value areas of the IT industry, there was strong performance in offerings that help clients with their digital transformation and shift of mission-critical work to the cloud.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
Total cloud revenue of $4.5 billion in the first quarter of 2019 grew 7 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue was $11.7 billion, an increase of 10 percent as reported and 15 percent adjusted for currency.
The consolidated gross margin of 44.2 percent increased 1.0 points year to year, and the operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 44.7 percent increased 0.9 points versus the prior year.
The company has been focused on improving margins and the results in the first quarter reflect the actions that have been taken to focus on higher value and portfolio optimization, and also in driving productivity and operational efficiency — especially in the services businesses.
Total expense and other (income) decreased 13.4 percent in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
The year-to-year performance was driven by a lower level of workforce rebalancing charges (7 points), the impact of currency (5 points) and lower non-operating retirement-related costs (4 points), partially offset by a decrease in intellectual property (IP) income (3 points).
Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) decreased 10.8 percent year to year, driven primarily by the same factors excluding the non-operating retirement-related costs.
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.9 billion increased 65.8 percent and the pre-tax margin was 10.4 percent, an increase of 4.4 points versus 2018.
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 15.4 percent, an increase of 62.9 points compared to the first quarter of 2018.
The year-to-year change was primarily driven by a reduced benefit from audit resolutions (65.8 points), offset by a lower impact from U.S. tax reform (2.5 points) and a more favorable mix of earnings.
Net income of $1.6 billion decreased 5.2 percent and the net income margin was 8.8 percent, flat year to year.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.2 billion grew 28.3 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 3.2 points to 12.3 percent.
The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 10.0 percent, an increase of 40.6 points compared to the first quarter of 2018.
The change in the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was primarily driven by the same factors mentioned above, excluding the impacts of U.S. tax reform related activity.
Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $2.0 billion decreased 11.6 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 11.0 percent, down 0.9 points year to year.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.78 in the first quarter of 2019 decreased 1.7 percent and operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $2.25 decreased 8.2 percent versus the first quarter of 2018.
In the first quarter of 2019, the company repurchased 6.9 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $0.9 billion and had $2.4 billion remaining in the current share repurchase authorization at March 31, 2019.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
· An increase of $5.9 billion in cash, restricted cash and marketable securities;
· An increase in operating right-of-use assets of $4.6 billion resulting from the adoption of the new leasing standard; partially offset by
· A decrease in total receivables of $3.4 billion due to collections of higher year-end balances.
· An increase in operating lease liabilities of $4.9 billion resulting from the adoption of the new leasing standard; and
· An increase in total debt of $4.2 billion driven by new issuances.
· Decreases from dividends ($1.4 billion) and treasury stock ($1.0 billion) primarily due to share repurchases; partially offset by
· Increases from net income ($1.6 billion) and retirement related plans ($0.3 billion).
The company generated $4.8 billion in cash flow provided by operating activities, an increase of $0.2 billion compared to the first quarter of 2018, driven primarily by an increase in cash provided by financing receivables ($0.1 billion).
Net cash used in investing activities of $0.9 billion was $0.9 billion lower than the prior year, primarily driven by an increase in cash provided by non-operating finance receivables ($0.3 billion), a decrease in net capital expenditures ($0.3 billion), and lower net purchases of marketable securities and other investments ($0.2 billion).
In the first quarter of 2019, financing activities were a source of cash of $1.9 billion compared to a $2.9 billion use of cash in the first quarter of 2018.
The $4.8 billion increase in cash flow year to year was driven by an increase in net cash sourced from debt transactions ($4.9 billion), with a higher level of issuances and a lower level of maturities in the current year.
The company continues to expect GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of at least $12.45 and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of at least $13.90 per diluted share for 2019.
The company continues to expect free cash flow to be approximately $12 billion in 2019, with free cash flow realization expected to be approximately 100 percent of GAAP net income.
Refer to page 72 in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information on this non-GAAP measure.
Refer to the Looking Forward section on pages 69 to 71 for additional information on the company’s expectations.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
First Quarter in Review
Results of Continuing Operations
Segment Details
The following is an analysis of the first quarter of 2019 versus the first quarter of 2018 reportable segment external revenue and gross margin results.
Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between segments that are intended to reflect an arm’s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
Cognitive Applications includes software that addresses vertical and domain-specific solutions, increasingly infused with AI.
This includes areas such as health, financial services, IOT solutions, The Weather Company and security software and services.
This content was previously reported in Solutions Software, with the exception of security services, which was reported in Infrastructure Services.
Cognitive Applications revenue of $1,308 million grew 1.7 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year, led by offerings in security, and solution areas such as health, supply chain and weather.
Security offerings generated double-digit revenue growth driven by the company’s integrated software and services value proposition.
Watson Health offerings had broad-based growth this quarter and Weather offerings had double-digit growth and reached an all-time high in the number of active users.
Transaction Processing Platforms includes software that supports client mission critical on-premise workloads, including transaction processing software as well as analytics and integration software running on IBM operating systems.
Transaction Processing Platforms revenue of $1,812 million decreased 3.6 percent as reported, but was flat adjusted for currency in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
Clients continued to commit to IBM’s platform for the long term given the value provided by these platforms while offering predictability in spending.
Pre-tax income of $1,767 million increased 5.2 percent in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
The pre-tax margin increased 2.3 points to 30.1 percent, driven by a lower level of workforce rebalancing charges in the current year, partially offset by lower IP income and continued investment in key strategic areas.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
Global Business Services
Global Business Services revenue of $4,119 million was flat as reported, but increased 4 percent adjusted for currency in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
There was strong growth in Consulting, as clients turn to GBS, with its industry specific expertise and innovative technology portfolio, to help them on their digital journey to a Cognitive Enterprise.
Consulting revenue of $1,964 million grew 5.2 percent as reported and 9 percent adjusted for currency.
This growth was led by Digital Strategy and iX, consulting for cloud application migrations and the Next Generation Enterprise Application practice.
Global Process Services revenue of $247 million was flat as reported, but grew 5 percent adjusted for currency, driven by strong performance in risk and compliance.
Application Management revenue of $1,908 million declined 4.7 percent as reported, but was flat adjusted for currency.
As the business shifts to cloud-based offerings, there was continued growth in Cloud Migration Factory and cloud application development.
This growth was offset by ongoing declines in traditional application management engagements.
Within GBS, cloud revenue of $1.2 billion grew 20 percent as reported (25 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.8 billion.
GBS gross profit margin increased 2.8 points year to year to 26.2 percent, driven by a mix to higher-value offerings, continued yield from productivity and utilization initiatives and benefits from currency due to the global delivery model.
Pre-tax income increased to $315 million in the first quarter of 2019 and pre-tax margin increased 4.5 points to 7.5 percent, reflecting the improvements in gross margin and a lower level of workforce rebalancing charges in the current year.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
Global Technology Services
Global Technology Services revenue of $6,875 million declined 7.4 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
The company is continuing to take actions to optimize the portfolio by de-emphasizing lower-value services content to increase margin, profit and cash contribution and better position the business for the longer term.
Technology Support Services revenue of $1,665 million decreased 6.5 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency) due primarily to hardware cycle dynamics.
Within GTS, cloud revenue of $2.1 billion grew 8 percent as reported (13 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $7.5 billion.
Global Technology Services gross profit margin increased 1.1 points to 33.7 percent, driven primarily by the mix shift to higher-value, benefits from cloud scale efficiencies and productivity improvements.
Pre-tax income increased to $275 million and pre-tax margin increased 3.0 points year to year to 3.8 percent, reflecting the improvements in gross margin and a lower level of workforce rebalancing charges in the current year.
Services Backlog and Signings
The estimated total services backlog at March 31, 2019 was $112 billion, a decrease of 8.0 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency).
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
under contract which is either non-cancellable, or which historically has very low likelihood of termination, given the criticality of certain services to the company’s clients.
Total backlog does not include as-a-Service arrangements that allow for termination under contractual commitment terms.
Backlog estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustments for revenue not materialized and adjustments for currency.
Services signings are management’s initial estimate of the value of a client’s commitment under a services contract.
There are no third-party standards or requirements governing the calculation of signings.
The calculation used by management involves estimates and judgments to gauge the extent of a client’s commitment, including the type and duration of the agreement, and the presence of termination charges or wind-down costs.
Contract portfolios purchased in an acquisition are treated as positive backlog adjustments provided those contracts meet the company’s requirements for initial signings.
A new signing will be recognized if a new services agreement is signed incidental or coincidental to an acquisition or divestiture.
Systems
Systems revenue of $1,328 million decreased 11.4 percent as reported (9 percent adjusted for currency) in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
Systems Hardware revenue of $914 million declined 16.4 percent as reported (14 percent adjusted for currency).
These declines were driven by IBM Z and Storage Systems, partially offset by growth in Power Systems.
Operating Systems Software revenue of $414 million grew 1.8 percent as reported (5 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year.
IBM Z revenue declined 38.8 percent as reported (38 percent adjusted for currency) year to year reflecting the product cycle dynamics.
The z14 continues to track ahead of the prior program with strong growth in MIPS shipped during the quarter led by Linux.
The single-frame z14 designed specifically for cloud data centers was also a growth driver.
Power Systems revenue grew 5.9 percent as reported (9 percent adjusted for currency) year to year.
This was the sixth consecutive quarter of growth, driven by Linux and the full rollout of the POWER9-based architecture.
The POWER9-based systems are designed to handle more data intensive workloads in AI, HANA and UNIX, as well as manage advanced analytics and cloud environments.
There was double-digit growth in the high-end and entry-level systems, partially offset by declines in the midrange systems, as reported and adjusted for currency.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
Storage Systems revenue decreased 13.4 percent as reported (11 percent adjusted for currency), driven by declines in high-end and midrange products, partially offset by double-digit growth in all-flash array offerings.
The storage market remains competitive with continued pricing pressures.
The company continued to introduce new innovations and functionality to differentiate and manage the portfolio for the market shift to flash.
Within Systems, cloud revenue of $0.4 billion declined 18 percent as reported (15 percent adjusted for currency).
The Systems gross profit margin increased 2.5 points to 46.2 percent in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
The year-to-year increase was driven by actions taken in the prior year to better position the systems cost structure over the longer term, and a current year benefit from mix to operating systems software.
The pre-tax loss in the first quarter of 2019 was flat compared to the prior year.
The pre-tax margin decreased 1.3 points year to year, driven by mix due to the z14 product cycle.
Global Financing
Global Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as a stand-alone entity.
Global Financing facilitates IBM clients’ acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise, while generating strong returns on equity.
Global Financing also optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with current clients.
Sales of equipment include equipment returned at the end of a lease, surplus internal equipment and used equipment purchased externally.
Residual value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception.
Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease.
Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio.
Results of Operations
In the first quarter, Global Financing total revenue of $706 million declined 15.4 percent compared to the prior year.
External revenue was flat as reported and increased 4 percent adjusted for currency due to an increase in financing (increased 7.4 percent to $336 million), partially offset by a decrease in used equipment sales (down 24.2 percent to $70 million).
Internal revenue decreased 30.0 percent, driven by a decrease in used equipment sales (down 42.2 percent to $188 million), partially offset by an increase in financing (up 8.1 percent to $113 million).
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
The increases in internal and external financing revenue in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 were primarily due to higher asset yields.
Sales of used equipment declined to 36.5 percent of Global Financing’s revenue in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 50.0 percent in the first quarter of 2018 due to lower volumes of internal and external used equipment sales.
The gross profit margin on used sales was 52.3 percent and 59.0 percent in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The decrease in gross profit margin was driven by lower margin on external equipment sales and a shift away from higher margin internal equipment sales.
Global Financing pre-tax income decreased 23.4 percent to $288 million in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, due to lower gross profit of $134 million, offset by a decrease in expense of $46 million, which included the gain from the sale of certain commercial financing capabilities, which closed in the first-quarter 2019.
Global Financing return on equity was 13.7 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to 32.5 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The decrease in return on equity was driven by a decline in net income.
Net income included higher tax expense in the first quarter of 2019 due to additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury regarding the U.S. tax reform repatriation tax.
Refer to page 73 for the details of the after-tax income and return on equity calculation.
Geographic Revenue
In addition to the revenue presentation by reportable segment, the company also measures revenue performance on a geographic basis.
In the first quarter, total revenue of $18,182 million decreased 4.7 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year.
Americas revenue of $8,493 million decreased 2.5 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency.
EMEA revenue of $5,727 million decreased 7.3 percent as reported, but was flat adjusted for currency.
Asia Pacific revenue of $3,961 million decreased 5.4 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency.
Within Americas, U.S. revenue decreased 2.8 percent compared to the prior year.
Canada revenue was flat as reported, but grew 5 percent adjusted for currency.
Latin America decreased 3.9 percent as reported, but increased 5 percent adjusted for currency.
Within Latin America, Brazil decreased 6.4 percent as reported, but increased 4 percent adjusted for currency.
In EMEA, France declined 9.3 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency.
Germany decreased 7.6 percent as reported, but was flat adjusted for currency.
Italy decreased 6.4 percent as reported, but increased 1 percent adjusted for currency.
The UK decreased 1.7 percent as reported, but grew 5 percent adjusted for currency.
The Middle East and Africa region decreased 8.3 percent as reported and 5 percent adjusted for currency.
Within Asia Pacific, Japan revenue increased 1.8 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year.
China decreased 16.5 percent as reported (13 percent adjusted for currency), India decreased 17.1 percent as reported (10 percent adjusted for currency) and Australia decreased 12.7 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency).
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
Expense
Total Expense and Other (Income)
nm - not meaningful
For additional information regarding total expense and other (income) for both expense presentations, see the following analyses by category.
Selling, General and Administrative Expense
nm — not meaningful
· Lower workforce rebalancing charges (10 points);
· The effects of currency (3 points); and
· Lower spending (2 points).
Operating (non-GAAP) expense decreased 14.4 percent year to year driven by primarily the same factors.
Bad debt expense decreased $7 million year to year.
The receivables provision coverage was 1.7 percent at March 31, 2019, an increase of 10 basis points from December 31, 2018 and unchanged from March 31, 2018.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
Research, Development and Engineering
· Higher spending (4 points); partially offset by
· The effects of currency (2 points).
Intellectual Property and Custom Development Income
Licensing of intellectual property including royalty-based fees decreased 79.8 percent year to year in the first quarter of 2019.
This was primarily due to a decline in new partnership agreements compared with the first quarter of 2018.
The timing and amount of licensing, sales or other transfers of IP may vary significantly from period to period depending upon the timing of licensing agreements, economic conditions, industry consolidation and the timing of new patents and know-how development.
Other (Income) and Expense
nm - not meaningful
· Net exchange gains in the current year versus net exchange losses in the prior year ($196 million); and
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
· Lower non-operating retirement-related costs ($264 million).
Refer to “Retirement-Related Plans” for additional information.
Operating (non-GAAP) other (income) and expense was $187 million of income in the first quarter of 2019 compared to expense of $11 million in the prior year.
The year-to-year change was driven primarily by the net exchange dynamics described above.
Interest Expense
nm - not meaningful
Interest expense increased $45 million year to year in the first quarter of 2019.
Interest expense is presented in cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings if the related external borrowings are to support the Global Financing external business.
Overall interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) for the first quarter of 2019 was $389 million, an increase of $42 million versus the comparable prior-year period, primarily driven by a higher average debt balance and higher average interest rates.
Retirement-Related Plans
nm - not meaningful
Total pre-tax retirement-related plan cost decreased by $297 million compared to the first quarter of 2018, primarily driven by a decrease in recognized actuarial losses ($289 million), primarily due to the change in the amortization period in the U.S.
Qualified Personal Pension Plan, higher expected return on plan assets ($26 million) and a decrease in defined contribution plans cost ($20 million), partially offset by higher interest costs ($36 million).
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
As discussed in the “Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings” section on page 51, the company characterizes certain retirement-related costs as operating and others as non-operating.
Utilizing this characterization, operating retirement-related costs in the first quarter of 2019 were $353 million, a decrease of $34 million compared to the first quarter of 2018, primarily driven by lower defined contribution plans cost ($20 million) and lower service cost ($12 million).
Non-operating costs of $138 million in the first quarter of 2019 decreased $264 million year to year, driven primarily by lower recognized actuarial losses ($289 million) and a higher expected return on plan assets ($26 million), partially offset by higher interest costs ($36 million).
Taxes
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 15.4 percent, an increase of 62.9 points compared to the first quarter of 2018.
The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 10.0 percent, an increase of 40.6 points compared to the first quarter of 2018.
The year-to-year change in the continuing operations effective tax rate was primarily driven by a reduced benefit from audit resolutions (65.8 points), offset by a lower impact from U.S. tax reform (2.5 points) and a more favorable mix of earnings.
The change in the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was primarily driven by the same factors, except for the impacts of U.S. tax reform related activity.
In January 2019, the U.S. Treasury issued additional U.S. tax reform guidelines.
The impact is included in the company’s first quarter 2019 provision for income taxes (GAAP only).
The amount of unrecognized tax benefits at March 31, 2019 is $6,561 million which can be reduced by $657 million of offsetting tax benefits associated with timing adjustments, U.S. tax credits, potential transfer pricing adjustments, and state income taxes.
The net amount of $5,904 million, if recognized, would favorably affect the company’s effective tax rate.
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method.
Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
Actual shares outstanding at March 31, 2019 were 886.6 million.
The weighted-average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution during the first quarter of 2019 was 31.5 million shares (3.4 percent) lower than the same period of 2018.
The decrease was primarily the result of the common stock repurchase program.
Financial Position
Dynamics
At March 31, 2019, the balance sheet remained strong and the company is well positioned for the long term.
Cash, restricted cash and marketable securities at quarter end were $18,144 million compared to $12,222 million at December 31, 2018, with a corresponding increase in debt as the company begins to prepare for the pending Red Hat acquisition.
The company continues to manage the investment portfolio to meet its capital preservation and liquidity objectives.
Total debt of $49,976 million increased $4,165 million from December 31, 2018, driven by new debt issuances of $5,962 million; partially offset by debt maturities of $1,751 million.
Within total debt, $29,522 million is in support of the Global Financing business.
In the first quarter of 2019, the company adopted the new leasing standard, which increased assets and corresponding lease liabilities by $4,634 million and $4,903 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2019.
In the first three months of 2019, the company generated $4,759 million in cash from operations, compared to $4,602 million in the first three months of 2018.
The company has consistently generated strong cash flows from operations and continues to have access to additional sources of liquidity through the capital markets and its credit facilities.
The assets and debt associated with the Global Financing business are a significant part of the company’s financial position.
Debt for Global Financing is expected to decline during 2019 as the company winds down its OEM Commercial Financing content.
The financial position amounts appearing on pages 5 and 6 are the consolidated amounts including Global Financing.
which is eliminated in IBM’s consolidated results.
At March 31, 2019, substantially all client and commercial financing assets were IT related assets, and approximately 55 percent of the total external portfolio was with investment grade clients with no direct exposure to consumers.
This investment grade percentage is based on the credit ratings of the companies in the portfolio.
The company has a long-standing practice of taking mitigating actions, in certain circumstances, to transfer credit risk to third parties, including credit insurance, financial guarantees, non-recourse borrowings, transfers of receivables recorded as true sales in accordance with accounting guidance or sales of equipment under operating lease.
Adjusting for the mitigation actions, the investment grade content would increase by 16 points to 71 percent, an increase of 1 point year to year.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
IBM Working Capital
· An increase of $5,922 million ($6,022 million adjusted for currency) in cash, restricted cash, and marketable securities; partially offset by
· A decline in receivables of $2,619 million ($2,561 million adjusted for currency) primarily driven by declines in financing receivables of $2,101 million as a result of collections of higher year-end balances.
· An increase in operating lease liabilities of $1,313 million ($1,315 million adjusted for currency) as a result of the adoption of the new leasing standard; and
· An increase in deferred income of $969 million ($1,011 million adjusted for currency) primarily due to the cyclical increase from annual billings; partially offset by
· A decrease in accounts payable of $847 million ($843 million adjusted for currency) reflecting declines from typically higher year-end balances; and
· A decrease in taxes payable of $562 million ($538 million adjusted for currency).
Receivables and Allowances
Roll Forward of Total IBM Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses (included in Total IBM)
The total IBM receivables provision coverage was 1.7 percent at March 31, 2019, an increase of 10 basis points compared to December 31, 2018.
The increase was driven by the overall decline in gross receivables.
Global Financing Receivables and Allowances
The following table presents external Global Financing receivables excluding residual values, the allowance for credit losses and immaterial miscellaneous receivables.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
The percentage of Global Financing receivables reserved increased from 0.9 percent at December 31, 2018, to 1.0 percent at March 31, 2019.
The increase was primarily driven by the overall decline in gross receivables.
Specific reserves were flat at March 31, 2019 compared to year-end 2018.
Unallocated reserves decreased 7.7 percent from $72 million at December 31, 2018, to $66 million at March 31, 2019.
Roll Forward of Global Financing Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses
Global Financing’s bad debt expense was $3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to $4 million for the same period in 2018.
Noncurrent Assets and Liabilities
· An increase in operating right-of-use assets of $4,634 million ($4,658 million adjusted for currency) as a result of the adoption of the new leasing standard; partially offset by
· A decrease in long-term financing receivables of $787 million ($773 million adjusted for currency) as a result of seasonal reductions of higher year-end balances.
· Issuances of $5,922 million; partially offset by
· Reclassifications to short-term debt of $1,749 million to reflect upcoming maturities.
· An increase in long-term operating lease liabilities of $3,590 million as a result of the adoption of the new leasing standard.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
Debt
The company’s funding requirements are continually monitored and strategies are executed to manage the overall asset and liability profile.
Additionally, the company maintains sufficient flexibility to access global funding sources as needed.
Total debt of $49,976 million increased $4,165 million from December 31, 2018, driven by new debt issuances of $5,962 million; partially offset by debt maturities of $1,751 million.
Non-Global Financing debt of $20,455 million was up $5,870 million from December 31, 2018 in preparation for the pending acquisition of Red Hat.
Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company’s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units.
These assets, primarily for Global Technology Services, generate long-term, stable revenue streams similar to the Global Financing asset portfolio.
Based on their attributes, these Global Technology Services assets are leveraged with the balance of the Global Financing asset base.
The debt used to fund Global Financing assets is composed of intercompany loans and external debt.
Total debt changes generally correspond with the level of client and commercial financing receivables, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in intercompany and external payables and the change in intercompany investment from IBM.
The terms of the intercompany loans are set by the company to substantially match the term, currency and interest rate variability underlying the financing receivable and are based on arm’s-length pricing.
The Global Financing debt-to-equity ratio remained at 9.0 to 1 at March 31, 2019.
Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company’s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units.
As previously stated, the company measures Global Financing as a stand-alone entity, and accordingly, interest expense relating to debt supporting Global Financing’s external client and internal business is included in the “Global Financing Results of Operations” on page 59 and in note 8, “Segments,” on pages 35 and 36.
In the company’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings, the external debt-related interest expense supporting Global Financing’s internal financing to the company is reclassified from cost of financing to interest expense.
Equity
Total equity decreased $323 million from December 31, 2018, primarily due to decreases from dividends paid ($1,397 million) and an increase in treasury stock ($950 million) primarily due to share repurchases; partially offset by increases from net income ($1,591 million) and retirement-related plans ($330 million).
Cash Flow
The company’s cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on page 7, are summarized in the following table.
These amounts include the cash flows associated with the Global Financing business.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
· An increase of $98 million in cash provided by financing receivables.
· An increase of $281 million in cash provided by non-operating finance receivables;
· A decrease in cash used for net capital expenditures of $279 million; and
· A decrease in net purchases of marketable securities and other investments of $248 million.
· An increase in net cash sourced from debt transactions of $4,945 million primarily driven by a higher level of issuances and a lower level of maturities in the current year.
Looking Forward
The company’s strategies, investments and actions are all made with an objective of optimizing long-term performance.
A long-term perspective ensures that the company is well-positioned to take advantage of the major shifts in technology, business and the global economy.
As part of its long-term strategic model, the company expects to continue to allocate capital efficiently and effectively to investments, and to return value to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
Over the long term, in consideration of the opportunities it will continue to develop, the company continues to expect to have the ability to generate low single-digit revenue growth, and with a higher-value business mix, mid single-digit profit growth, high single-digit operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share growth, with free cash flow realization of GAAP net income over 90 percent.
Over the last several years, the company has been making investments and shifting resources, embedding AI and cloud into its offerings while building new solutions and modernizing its existing platforms.
These investments not only drive current performance, but will extend the company’s innovation leadership into the future.
The company’s key differentiators are built around three pillars — innovative technology, industry expertise and trust and security, uniquely delivered through an integrated model.
The company is focused on the next chapter of cloud, which will shift mission-critical work to the cloud and optimize everything from supply chains to core banking systems.
To address this opportunity, enterprises need to be able to move and manage data, services, and workflows across multiple clouds and on-premises.
They also need to be able to address security concerns, data protection and protocols, availability, and cloud management.
This requires a hybrid, multi-cloud, open approach.
As a result, the company has been reshaping its business to address this opportunity, investing heavily to build capabilities.
Going forward, the company will continue providing growth rates for cloud and as-a service — the signposts of key emerging high value areas of the IT industry.
The company eliminated its strategic imperatives reporting, established in 2015, with a goal of achieving approximately $40B of revenue across its strategic imperatives, which was achieved in 2018.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
IBM’s pending acquisition of Red Hat will bring together the best-in-class hybrid cloud providers and will enable companies to securely unlock the full value of cloud for their businesses.
IBM and Red Hat will be strongly positioned to address this opportunity and accelerate hybrid cloud adoption.
The company is proceeding through the regulatory process and continues to expect to close the transaction in the second half of 2019.
The acquisition of Red Hat reinforces IBM’s high-value model.
It is expected to accelerate IBM’s revenue growth, gross margin and be accretive to free cash flow within 12 months of closing.
The company will continue with a disciplined financial policy and is committed to maintaining strong investment grade credit ratings and supporting a solid and growing dividend.
The company will target a leverage profile consistent with a mid to high single A credit rating.
During the first quarter of 2019, the company began the issuance of additional debt in preparation of the pending acquisition.
In order to reduce debt, the company intends to suspend its share repurchase program in 2020 and 2021.
At mid-April 2019 spot rates, the company expects a currency headwind of approximately 2.5 points to second quarter 2019 revenue growth and a headwind of approximately 2.0 points to full year 2019 revenue growth.
The company expects revenue dynamics from the first quarter to the second quarter of 2019 to be similar to the last two years, which is a sequential increase of approximately $900 million to $1 billion.
For full-year 2019, the company expects to expand gross and pre-tax margins.
Overall, the company continues to expect GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations for 2019 to be at least $12.45.
Excluding acquisition-related charges of $0.76 per share, non-operating retirement-related items of $0.45 per share and tax reform enactment impacts of $0.24 per share, operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share is expected to be at least $13.90.
Earnings per share expectations do not include Red Hat, as financial implications for 2019 are heavily dependent on the timing of the closing.
Expectations will be updated after the transaction closes.
The two announced divestitures of software products are expected to close in the second quarter and have been included in the full-year earnings per share expectations.
For the second quarter of 2019, the company expects GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share to be approximately 22 percent of the respective full-year expectations.
Looking forward to the second half of 2019, the company expects growth in earnings per share to be skewed to the fourth quarter.
The company expects the gains on the previously announced divestitures to be between $500 million and $700 million and the company’s earnings per share expectations for the second quarter of 2019 assume the low-end of this range.
For the full year and second quarter of 2019, the company’s expectations assume minimal to no impact to profit and earnings per share overall, with the majority of any gains offset by foregone profit and stranded costs from the divestitures, as well as actions taken to address structure and stranded costs.
The company continues to expect free cash flow to be approximately $12 billion in 2019.
Free cash flow expectations for the year reflect expected operational profit performance and continued balance sheet efficiency including capital management, partially offset by a cash tax headwind.
Free cash flow realization, which is defined as free cash flow to income from continuing operations (GAAP), is expected to be approximately 100 percent for the year.
These expectations also take into account the estimated impact of the announced and closed divestitures, however do not include estimated impacts from the pending acquisition of Red Hat, other than an estimate of pre-closing financing costs.
For full-year 2019, the company expects the GAAP effective tax rate to be approximately 12 to 13 percent, including an estimate for potential discrete tax events (discretes).
Discretes by their nature are difficult to estimate and the actual impacts will be recorded as the discrete events occur.
The company expects its operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for 2019 to be approximately 11 to 12 percent (which is a 3 to 4 points headwind year to year), including an estimate of potential discretes.
The rates will change year to year based on discrete tax events, such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes in tax laws, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies.
The GAAP effective tax rate could also be affected by adjustments to the previously recorded charges for U.S. tax reform attributable to any changes in law, new regulations and guidance, audit adjustments, among others.
Beginning in the second quarter of 2019 and continuing throughout the year, IBM’s Global Financing business will wind down the portion of its commercial financing operations, which provides short-term working capital solutions for OEM information technology suppliers, distributors and resellers.
IBM Global Financing will continue to provide differentiated end-to-end financing solutions, including commercial financing in support of IBM partner relationships.
The wind down of this activity is expected to reduce IBM’s revenue, with a nominal impact to profit, however it does not change the company’s earnings per share and free cash flow expectations for 2019.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
Beginning in 2019, within the IBM U.S.
Qualified Personal Pension Plan, substantially all the plan participants are now considered inactive, which, as required by U.S. GAAP, resulted in a change in the amortization period of unrecognized actuarial losses, from the average remaining service period of active plan participants to the average remaining life expectancy of inactive plan participants.
These periods are approximately 6 years and 18 years, respectively.
As a result of this change, there will be a reduction to 2019 amortization expense of approximately $900 million.
Actuarial loss amortization is reported within non-operating pension costs.
There will be no impact to 2019 operating (non-GAAP) retirement-related costs, funded status, retiree benefit payments or funding requirements of the U.S.
Qualified Personal Pension Plan.
However, there will be an impact to free cash flow realization.
The company expects 2019 pre-tax retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $2.0 billion, a decrease of approximately $1 billion compared to 2018.
This estimate reflects current pension plan assumptions at December 31, 2018.
Within total retirement-related plan cost, operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.5 billion, approximately flat versus 2018.
Non-operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $0.6 billion, a decrease of approximately $1 billion compared to 2018, primarily driven by lower actuarial loss amortization resulting from the change in amortization period for the U.S. plan.
Contributions for all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $2.4 billion in 2019, an increase of approximately $100 million compared to 2018.
Currency Rate Fluctuations
Changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies to the U.S. dollar (USD) affect the company’s financial results and financial position.
At March 31, 2019, currency changes resulted in assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies being translated into fewer dollars than at year-end 2018.
The company uses financial hedging instruments to limit specific currency risks related to financing transactions and other foreign currency-based transactions.
During periods of sustained movements in currency, the marketplace and competition adjust to the changing rates.
For example, when pricing offerings in the marketplace, the company may use some of the advantage from a weakening U.S. dollar to improve its position competitively, and price more aggressively to win the business, essentially passing on a portion of the currency advantage to its customers.
Competition will frequently take the same action.
Consequently, the company believes that some of the currency-based changes in cost impact the prices charged to clients.
The company also maintains currency hedging programs for cash management purposes which temporarily mitigate, but do not eliminate, the volatility of currency impacts on the company’s financial results.
The company translates revenue, cost and expense in its non-U.S. operations at current exchange rates in the reported period.
References to “adjusted for currency” or “constant currency” reflect adjustments based upon a simple mathematical formula.
However, this constant currency methodology that the company utilizes to disclose this information does not incorporate any operational actions that management could take to mitigate fluctuating currency rates.
Currency movements impacted the company’s year-to-year revenue and earnings per share growth in the first three months of 2019.
Based on the currency rate movements in the first three months of 2019, total revenue decreased 4.7 percent as reported and 0.9 percent at constant currency versus the first three months of 2018.
On an income from continuing operations before income tax basis, these translation impacts offset by the net impact of hedging activities resulted in a theoretical maximum (assuming no pricing or sourcing actions) increase of approximately $60 million in the first three months of 2019 on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $50 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The same mathematical exercise resulted in an increase of approximately $70 million in the first three months of 2018 on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $90 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company views these amounts as a theoretical maximum impact to its as-reported financial results.
Considering the operational responses mentioned above, movements of exchange rates, and the nature and timing of hedging instruments, it is difficult to predict future currency impacts on any particular period, but the company believes it could be substantially less than the theoretical maximum given the competitive pressure in the marketplace.
For non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars or whose economic environment is highly inflationary, translation adjustments are reflected in results of operations.
Generally, the company manages currency risk in these entities by linking prices and contracts to U.S. dollars.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
In the company’s 2018 Annual Report, on pages 60 to 62, there is a discussion of the company’s liquidity including two tables that present three years of data.
The table presented on page 60 includes net cash from operating activities, cash, restricted cash and short-term marketable securities, and the size of the company’s global credit facilities for each of the past
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
three years.
For the three months ended, or as of, as applicable, March 31, 2019, those amounts are $4.8 billion of net cash from operating activities, $18.1 billion of cash, restricted cash and short-term marketable securities and $15.3 billion in global credit facilities, respectively.
On October 28, 2018, IBM announced its intent to acquire all the outstanding shares of Red Hat.
The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory clearance.
The company intends to fund this transaction through a combination of cash and debt.
In connection with this acquisition, IBM entered into a commitment letter under which certain banks committed to provide the company with a 364-day unsecured bridge term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $20 billion to fund the acquisition.
The major rating agencies’ ratings on the company’s debt securities at March 31, 2019 appear in the following table and remain unchanged from December 31, 2018.
IBM will continue with a disciplined financial policy and is committed to maintaining strong investment grade credit ratings.
The company does not have “ratings trigger” provisions in its debt covenants or documentation, which would allow the holders to declare an event of default and seek to accelerate payments thereunder in the event of a change in credit rating.
The company’s contractual agreements governing derivative instruments contain standard market clauses which can trigger the termination of the agreement if the company’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade.
At March 31, 2019, the fair value of those instruments that were in a liability position was $705 million, before any applicable netting, and this position is subject to fluctuations in fair value period to period based on the level of the company’s outstanding instruments and market conditions.
The company has no other contractual arrangements that, in the event of a change in credit rating, would result in a material adverse effect on its financial position or liquidity.
The company prepares its Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in accordance with applicable accounting standards for cash flow presentation on page 7 of this Form 10-Q and highlights causes and events underlying sources and uses of cash in that format on page 69.
For the purpose of running its business, the company manages, monitors and analyzes cash flows in a different manner.
Management uses free cash flow as a measure to evaluate its operating results, plan share repurchase levels, strategic investments and assess its ability and need to incur and service debt.
The entire free cash flow amount is not necessarily available for discretionary expenditures.
The company defines free cash flow as net cash from operating activities less the change in Global Financing receivables and net capital expenditures, including the investment in software.
A key objective of the Global Financing business is to generate strong returns on equity, and increasing receivables is the basis for growth.
Accordingly, management considers Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment, not as working capital that should be minimized for efficiency.
Therefore, management includes presentations of both free cash flow and net cash from operating activities that exclude the effect of Global Financing receivables.
Free cash flow guidance is derived using an estimate of profit, working capital and operational cash outflows.
As previously noted, the company views Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment which it seeks to maximize and therefore it is not considered when formulating guidance for free cash flow.
As a result the company does not estimate a GAAP Net Cash from Operations expectation metric.
The following is management’s view of cash flows for the first three months of 2019 and 2018 prepared in a manner consistent with the description above.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
In the first three months of 2019, the company generated free cash flow of $1.7 billion, an increase of $0.3 billion versus the prior year.
In the first quarter, the company continued to focus its cash utilization on returning value to shareholders including $1.4 billion in dividends and $0.9 billion in gross common stock repurchases (6.9 million shares).
Events that could temporarily change the historical cash flow dynamics discussed previously and in the company’s 2018 Annual Report include significant changes in operating results, material changes in geographic sources of cash, unexpected adverse impacts from litigation, future pension funding requirements during periods of severe downturn in the capital markets or the timing of tax payments.
Whether any litigation has such an adverse impact will depend on a number of variables, which are more completely described in note 14, “Contingencies,” in this Form 10-Q.
With respect to pension funding, the company expects to make legally mandated pension plan contributions to certain non-U.S. defined benefit plans of approximately $400 million in 2019.
Contributions related to all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $2.4 billion in 2019.
Financial market performance could increase the legally mandated minimum contributions in certain non-U.S. countries that require more frequent remeasurement of the funded status.
The company is not quantifying any further impact from pension funding because it is not possible to predict future movements in the capital markets or pension plan funding regulations.
In 2019, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans.
The company’s cash flows are sufficient to fund its current operations and obligations, including investing and financing activities such as dividends and debt service.
When additional requirements arise, the company has several liquidity options available.
These options may include the ability to borrow additional funds at reasonable interest rates and utilizing its committed global credit facilities.
Global Financing Return on Equity Calculation
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
GAAP Reconciliation
The tables below provide a reconciliation of the company’s income statement results as reported under GAAP to its operating earnings presentation which is a non-GAAP measure.
The company’s calculation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
Refer to the “Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings” section on page 51 for the company’s rationale for presenting operating earnings information.
Table of Contents
Management Discussion — (continued)
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this Form 10-Q may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance.
These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including, but not limited to, the following: a downturn in economic environment and client spending budgets; the company’s failure to meet growth and productivity objectives; a failure of the company’s innovation initiatives; damage to the company’s reputation; risks from investing in growth opportunities; failure of the company’s intellectual property portfolio to prevent competitive offerings and the failure of the company to obtain necessary licenses; cybersecurity and data privacy considerations; fluctuations in financial results; impact of local legal, economic, political and health conditions; adverse effects from environmental matters, tax matters and the company’s pension plans; ineffective internal controls; the company’s use of accounting estimates; the company’s ability to attract and retain key employees and its reliance on critical skills; impacts of relationships with critical suppliers; product quality issues; impacts of business with government clients; currency fluctuations and customer financing risks; impact of changes in market liquidity conditions and customer credit risk on receivables; reliance on third party distribution channels and ecosystems; the company’s ability to successfully manage acquisitions, alliances and dispositions, including integration challenges, failure to achieve objectives, the assumption of liabilities, and higher debt levels; legal proceedings and investigatory risks; risk factors related to IBM securities; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in the company’s Form 10-Qs, Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or in materials incorporated therein by reference.
The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Item 4.
Controls and Procedures
The company’s management evaluated, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
There has been no change in the company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Part II — Other Information
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
Refer to note 14, “Contingencies,” on pages 45 to 47 of this Form 10-Q.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds and Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities
The following table provides information relating to the company’s repurchase of common stock for the first quarter of 2019.
Table of Contents
Item 5.
Other Information
As disclosed in the company’s 2019 Proxy Statement filed on March 11, 2019, Hutham S. Olayan and James W. Owens were not nominees for election at the company’s annual meeting of stockholders held on April 30, 2019, and their terms on the Board ended.
As a result, Article III, Section 2 of the company’s By-Laws was amended to decrease the number of directors to twelve, effective April 30, 2019.
The full text of IBM’s By-Laws, as amended effective April 30, 2019, is included as Exhibit 3.2 of this report.
On April 30, 2019, the company entered into a consulting arrangement with Erich Clementi, who retired as Senior Vice President on March 31, 2019.
For a period of one year, Mr. Clementi may be asked, from time to time, to provide consulting services to the company as an independent contractor.
The fee for such services would be $7,000 per day for each day he provides four or more hours of services and $3,500 per day for each day that he provides less than four hours.
The consulting arrangement is set forth in the Letter Agreement attached as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 6.
Exhibits
Table of Contents
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
