fls.txt



item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.
As of June 30, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
In order to provide comparability between periods presented, those amounts of revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Our chief operating decision maker uses consolidated financial information to make operating decisions, assess financial performance and allocate resources.
Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The standard also provides guidance on the recognition of costs related to obtaining and fulfilling customer contracts.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.
As of June 30, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.
There is a concerted effort underway to optimize our portfolio of solutions and integrate powerful capabilities — such as built in data, analytics, artificial intelligence, payment processing and tailored user-specific experiences — to bring even greater value and performance to our customers.
We achieved a significant milestone on this strategy by recently announcing our new comprehensive Cloud Solution for Faith Communities with the introduction of Blackbaud Church Management™.
We expect the general release of Blackbaud Church Management in mid-2019.
Selling integrated cloud-solutions that are purpose-built for organizations, such as our cloud for K-12 private schools, is a key competitive differentiator for our sales teams.
We believe that attaching training, analytics, and payments to a deal improves the cloud experience, drives customer outcomes, improves retention, and increases customer lifetime value.
We recently released new fundraising benchmarking capabilities in Raisers Edge NXT™ that complement the existing set of SKY Reporting™ tools and leverage Blackbaud's proprietary data, giving our customers the ability to compare their performance in key fundraising metrics against their peers.
These capabilities not only provide customers with performance insight but also quantify the value of improving their performance and refer them to specific tools inside of the Raiser's Edge NXT to drive growth.
Our focus has been on driving improved productivity within our existing salesforce through common procedures, training, key operating metrics, compensation plans, and reporting.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments We continue to evaluate compelling opportunities to acquire companies and acquire or build technologies and services.
We have been executing this strategy for several years and have expanded our TAM by roughly $2 billion through acquired businesses.
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and deliver improved profitability.
We continue driving towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives and organizational re-alignments.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



