fls.txt
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.


item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Our chief operating decision maker uses consolidated financial information to make operating decisions, assess financial performance and allocate resources.
Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheet but recognize expenses in the income statement in a manner similar to previous guidance.
The way in which entities classify leases determines how to recognize lease-related revenue and expense.
Additionally, we elected not to apply the recognition requirements of the new lease accounting standard to short-term leases.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any initial direct costs and lease payments made and excludes lease incentives.


item2.txt
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
1.Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions This strategy reflects our relentless focus on driving value and outcomes for our customers through our solutions.
Our Blackbaud SKY™ platform is a core tenant of this strategy and continues to power an elevated level of innovation by our engineers.
It is also enabling our growing ecosystem of partners who are also passionate about social good, to create new capabilities that often look and feel like Blackbaud-built capabilities.
Among the many product and innovation updates across all of our vertical markets, we recently announced the general availability of Blackbaud Church Management™, which is already transforming the church technology landscape.
Within just one year of announcing plans for Blackbaud Church Management, we now serve churches in more than half of the 50 U.S. states, representing congregations of all different sizes and spanning more than 10 denominations.
Bringing this solution to market is a significant step toward addressing several challenges in the church market and a substantial opportunity for Blackbaud.
We have built an environment of rapid innovation through a combination of our modern cloud architecture and industry standard methodologies.
Our early adopter customers have a significant role in shaping our new solutions and our SKY platform enables us to rapidly iterate based on their feedback before releasing the solutions to the market.
For example, we are also well underway with early adopters in our Higher Education vertical as we extend our proven Education Management portfolio up market.
We have spent the last several years organizing for scale and laying the foundation for our salespeople to be more successful.
This year marks an important milestone in that process as the structural transformation in sales is now largely complete, enabling our account executives to focus on leading with total solution selling by vertical, driving more products per customer, higher ASPs and overall increased customer lifetime value.
With the structural changes behind us, our focus is on adding sales headcount and improving overall sales productivity.
This effort extends beyond our sales organization into areas like marketing, where we are investing in the necessary technology and resources to efficiently drive an increased number of quality leads and better cover our large addressable market.
Over the last three years, we've tripled the number of account executives dedicated to prospect accounts, and these investments are just one way we're equipping our growing salesforce to be more effective.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



