fls.txt



item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
In order to provide comparability between periods presented, those amounts of revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Our chief operating decision maker uses consolidated financial information to make operating decisions, assess financial performance and allocate resources.
Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The standard also provides guidance on the recognition of costs related to obtaining and fulfilling customer contracts.
The impact of adopting ASU 2014-09 on our total revenues for 2017 and 2016 was not material.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
As of September 30, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.
There is a concerted effort underway to optimize our portfolio of solutions and integrate powerful capabilities — such as built in data, analytics, artificial intelligence, payment processing and tailored user-specific experiences — to bring even greater value and performance to our customers.
This next generation cloud offering brings our proven strengths in fundraising and CRM, financial management, marketing, payments and analytics together with completely new church management capabilities, giving church leaders the ability to track gifts and tithing, assimilate new members, directly communicate with their congregations via multi-channel communication, enable members to make online and mobile contributions, manage small groups of volunteers, implement secure child check-in, conduct background checks, provide bulk tax statements and manage facilities.
We expect the general release of Blackbaud Church Management in mid-2019.
Second, at our 2018 annual user conference, bbcon, we announced our new Cloud Solution for Higher Education with the introduction of a new Education Management portfolio along with stewardship management and guided fundraising capabilities tailored for higher education.
This is another exciting next step forward in our continued commitment to providing comprehensive, purpose-built cloud solutions that drive digital transformation.
SKY cloud platform and is another demonstration of our ability to rapidly build new solutions to further address customer needs and grow our addressable markets.
As part of this initiative, we announced our first jointly-developed solution suite called Nonprofit Resource Management™, which is a breakthrough in helping nonprofits effectively source, track, distribute, and measure the impact of their resources across core business processes from managing the distribution of material goods to financial and human capital distribution.
Nonprofit Resource Management is currently in development in collaboration with early adopters.
The first capability set, Goods Distribution, is expected to be released in the summer of 2019, with program design and others capabilities to follow.
The solution will be sold jointly through Blackbaud and Microsoft partner and sales channels and will work seamlessly with Blackbaud solutions providing a connected experience for the customer.
Selling integrated cloud-solutions that are purpose-built for organizations, such as our cloud for K-12 private schools, is a key competitive differentiator for our sales teams.
Our sales account executives now lead with a total-solution selling strategy by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



