fls.txt
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.


item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2018, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Our chief operating decision maker uses consolidated financial information to make operating decisions, assess financial performance and allocate resources.
Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheet but recognize expenses in the income statement in a manner similar to previous guidance.
to use the hindsight practical expedient, which permits entities to use hindsight in determining the lease term and assessing impairment.
Additionally, we elected not to apply the recognition requirements of the new lease accounting standard to short-term leases.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
The launch elevates our peer-to-peer portfolio by providing our best-in-class cloud solution at no subscription cost.
We also introduced Blackbaud Purchase Cards integrated with Expense Management in Financial Edge NXT providing social good organizations with an efficient and convenient alternative to traditional procurement methods and paper-based payables processes such as checks, purchase orders, and invoices.
We continue to progress in our early adopter program for our new Cloud Solution for Faith Communities with our first wave of early adopter customers now live on our Church Management Solution using it to run their day-to-day operations in close collaboration with our product teams.
The market response to our expanded Education Management portfolio for Higher Education has been positive, with Blackbaud SKY enabling us to extend our proven K-12 Private School solutions up-market.
Our Education Management portfolio consists of Student Information, Learning Management, Tuition Management as well as Financial Edge NXT and Raiser's Edge NXT.
We spent much of 2018 working to simplify our program and refine our methodology and approach in a uniform way to better enable our salespeople with process and practice.
During the first quarter of 2019, we implemented a common sales leadership framework across the Company, providing our sales managers with best practice tools and training necessary to be successful.
With the sales structure transformation now largely done, the focus going forward will be adding additional sales headcount and improving productivity.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments In January 2019, we added another half-billion dollars in TAM when we completed our acquisition of YourCause, an industry leader in enterprise corporate social responsibility and employee engagement technology.
We continue to execute a comprehensive workplace and workforce strategy, driving towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments.
We have continued executing against our workplace strategy, working to replace and upgrade some of our existing offices and expand our footprint into new locations for customer facing roles.
This has been a multi-year program for us, and we expect to be largely complete by the end of 2019.
In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytics, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



