fls.txt
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.


item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations for interim reporting of the SEC.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheet but recognize expenses in the income statement in a manner similar to previous guidance.
The way in which entities classify leases determines how to recognize lease-related revenue and expense.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
The early adopter program for our Cloud Solution for Faith Communities is on track and we expect to soon announce the general availability of Blackbaud Church Management™.
We’ve spent a considerable amount of time working with churches to fully understand their processes and workflows to gain additional insight into the capabilities they need to be successful, and we continue to incorporate that feedback to optimize our platform specifically for their needs.
We have heard from our early adopter customers that our solution stands out as intuitive and easy-to-use with a mobile responsive user experience.
Churches can also add other Blackbaud capabilities from the Cloud Solution for Faith Communities as their needs scale—all through one integrated experience, which is powered by the Blackbaud SKY platform.
Bringing this solution to market is a significant step toward addressing several challenges in the church market and a substantial opportunity for Blackbaud.
We're excited about the opportunity to disrupt the market landscape by providing this peer-to-peer solution, which is fully integrated across our portfolio of best-in-class cloud solutions.
The market response to this new solution has been positive, with a growing number of customers going live with active campaigns.
We spent much of 2018 working to simplify our sales program and refine our methodology and approach in a uniform way to better enable our salespeople with process and practice.
With the sales structure transformation now largely done, our focus is on adding additional sales headcount and improving overall productivity.
Our account executives continue to lead with total solution selling by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASPs and overall increased customer lifetime value.
We also continue to rapidly advance our existing applications and bring new solutions to market, enabling our sales teams to sell more.
Since January, we have moved quickly on back-office integration so we can focus on the opportunity ahead of us, which is significant given the trend in institutions of all sizes focusing on corporate social responsibility.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



