fls.txt



item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, corporations, education institutions, healthcare institutions and individual change agents—we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through software, services, expertise and data intelligence.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing, and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
In order to provide comparability between periods presented, those amounts of revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").
ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
The standard also provides guidance on the recognition of costs related to obtaining and fulfilling customer contracts.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing, and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.
As of March 31, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.
There is a concerted effort underway to optimize our portfolio of solutions and integrate powerful capabilities — such as built in data, analytics, artificial intelligence, payment processing and tailored user-specific experiences — to bring even greater value and performance to our customers.
We recently introduced Blackbaud Grantmaking™, our newest and most comprehensive grants management solution.
Our next generation cloud offering for grantmaking evolves the experience previously available with a product we acquired with MicroEdge called GIFTS Online®.
We also recently announced the integration of AcademicWorks® with our Blackbaud SKY powered solutions, bolstering our customers' ability to grant and manage scholarships.
Donors funding scholarships, for example, will now have improved visibility given the integration with our digital marketing solutions.
This saves our customers time through automation, and provides them with a more robust set of tools to better enable their organizations for success.
Our focus is on driving improved productivity within our existing salesforce through common procedures, training, key operating metrics, compensation plans, and reporting.
Our sales account executives now lead with a total-solution selling strategy, which we believe results in more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term.
We believe that attaching training, analytics, and payments to a deal improves the customer experience, improves outcomes, drives retention, and extends the customer lifetime value.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments We continue to evaluate compelling opportunities to acquire companies and acquire or build technologies and services.
We quickly integrated their back office for consistency and scale and have expanded sales into Canada and the United Kingdom (the "UK") by integrating the solutions into our international sales channels.
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and deliver improved profitability.
Over the last several years, we have created an operational excellence function inside of Blackbaud to focus on maximizing the effectiveness of the business through continuous improvement.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



