We believe that all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal recurring items, have been included in the accompanying financial statements to present fairly the results of the interim periods.
Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 The comparability of our operating results in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year period was impacted by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act), which was effective for us starting in our third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Cloud services revenues include revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies, respectively, via cloud-based deployment models that we develop functionality for, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues primarily represent amounts earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware, application and industry-specific software products which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
Our hardware support offerings generally provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of the hardware products purchased and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.
Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees.
Our consulting services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying other products and services.
Our advanced customer support services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying other products and services.
recognition of revenues when, or as, the contractual performance obligations are satisfied.
We record deferred revenues on our condensed consolidated balance sheets when revenues are recognized subsequent to cash collection for an invoice.
The transaction price for a contract that is financed through our financing division is adjusted to reflect the time value of money and interest revenue is recorded as a component of non-operating income, net within our condensed consolidated statements of operations based on market rates in the country in which the transaction is being financed.Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 81% of our total revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.
The majority of our Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
In recent periods, customer demand has increased for our Oracle Cloud Services.
To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications, platform and infrastructure licenses and license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads.
Our cloud and license business’ revenues growth is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; our acquisitions; our ability to deliver our cloud services to our customers; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amount and volume of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and license products and services.