We have prepared the condensed consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 The comparability of our operating results in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year periods was impacted by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act), which was effective for us starting in our third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The net expense related to the enactment of the Tax Act has been accounted for during the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 based on provisional estimates pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Cloud services revenues include revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies, respectively, via cloud-based deployment models that we develop functionality for, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues primarily represent amounts earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware, application and industry-specific software products which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
Our hardware support offerings generally provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of the hardware products purchased and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.
Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees.
Our consulting services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying other products and services.
Our advanced customer support services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying other products and services.
We offer these advanced customer support services to Oracle customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services.
recognition of revenues when, or as, the contractual performance obligations are satisfied.Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 82% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.
The majority of our Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over their contractual terms.
Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase license support contracts, as described above.
In recent periods, customer demand has increased for our Oracle Cloud Services.
To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications, platform and infrastructure licenses and license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads.Item 1A.