Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operations 
We are a global leader focused on improving the ways scientists use knowledge and data to predict the properties and outcomes of pharmaceutical and biotechnology agents, and are one of only two global companies who provide a wide range of early discovery, preclinical, and clinical consulting services and software. Our innovations in integrating new and existing science in medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, pharmaceutical science, biology, physiology, and machine learning into our software have made us the leading software provider for PBPK modeling and simulation, prediction of molecular properties from structure, and prediction of drugs to induce liver injury or to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. 
We generate revenue by delivering relevant, cost-effective software and creative and insightful consulting services. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies use our software programs and scientific knowledge to guide early drug discovery (molecule design and screening), preclinical, and clinical development programs. They also use it to enhance their understanding of the properties of potential new medicines and to use emerging data to improve formulations, select and justify dosing regimens, support the generics industry, optimize clinical trial designs, and simulate outcomes in special populations, such as the elderly and pediatric patients. 
In September 2014, Simulations Plus acquired Cognigen Corporation (Cognigen) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 23, 2014, by and between Simulations Plus and Cognigen (the “Merger Agreement”). Cognigen was originally incorporated in 1992. Through the integration of Cognigen into Simulations Plus, Simulations Plus became also a leading provider of population modeling and simulation contract research services for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Our clinical-pharmacology-based consulting services include pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling, clinical trial simulations, data programming, and technical writing services in support of regulatory submissions. We have also developed software for harnessing cloud-based computing in support of modeling and simulation activities and secure data archiving, and we provide consulting services to improve interdisciplinary collaborations and research and development productivity. 
In June 2017, Simulation Plus acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated May 1, 2017. On June 1, 2017, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and DILIsym provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies. The acquisition of DILIsym positions the Company as the leading provider of Drug Induced Liver Injury (DILI) modeling and simulation software and contract research services. In addition to the DILIsym® software for analysis of potential drug-induced liver injury, DILIsym Services, Inc. also has developed a simulation program for analyzing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) called NAFLDsym™. The difference between DILIsym and NAFLDsym is that DILIsym estimates the potential for a particular drug molecule to induce liver injury (i.e., to cause damage), while NAFLDsym estimates the likelihood of new molecules to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (i.e., to repair damage), and is unique to the mechanisms involved in such treatment. As such, DILIsym can be a single program that addresses a wide variety of molecules across various companies, while NAFLDsym requires customizing the software for each mechanism of action. Both the DILIsym and NAFLDsym software programs require outputs from physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) software as inputs. The GastroPlus™ PBPK software from Simulations Plus provides such information; thus, the integration of these technologies will provide a seamless capability for analyzing the potential for drug-induced liver injury for new drug compounds and for investigating the potential for new therapeutic agents to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. 
Because of the widespread use of GastroPlus, we were the only non-European company invited to join the European Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) program for Oral Bioavailability Tools (OrBiTo). OrBiTo, begun in 2012 and completed in 2017, was an international collaboration among 27 industry, academic, and government organizations working in the area of oral absorption of pharmaceutical products. Because we are outside of the European Union, our participation in this project was at our own expense, while other members were compensated for their work; however, we were a full member with access to all of the data and discussions of all other members. We believe our investment to participate in this initiative enabled us to benefit from, and to contribute to, advancing the prediction of human oral bioavailability from preclinical data, and ensured that we are well-known to member pharmaceutical companies and regulatory agencies. 
In September 2016, we announced that Simulations Plus had been invited to join the European SimInhale Consortium and had been admitted to this prestigious group focused on advancing the state of the art for simulation of inhaled dosage forms. As one of only two U.S. participants, Simulations Plus is participating in activities designed to advance particle designs for improved deposition and interaction with lung tissue; promote realistic computer simulations of particle aerosolization, delivery, and deposition; promote patient-tailored inhaled medicines; promote integration of device and formulation design; and promote critical assessment of toxicity issues and related risks. 
In September 2014, we entered into a research collaboration agreement (RCA) with the FDA to enhance the Ocular Compartmental Absorption and Transit (OCAT™) model within the Additional Dosing Routes Module of GastroPlus. The objective of this agreement was to provide a tool for generic companies and the FDA to assess the likely bioequivalence of generic drug formulations dosed to the eye. Under this RCA, we received up to $200,000 per year. This RCA could be renewed for up to a total of three years based on the progress achieved during the project. After a successful second year, the RCA was extended for two additional years in September 2016 and will be completed in September 2018. 
Our goal with GastroPlus is to integrate the most advanced science into user-friendly software to enable researchers and regulators to perform sophisticated analyses of complex compound behaviors in humans and laboratory animals. Already the most widely used program in the world for physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK), the addition of these new capabilities is expected to expand the user base in the early pharmaceutical research and development process, while also helping us to further penetrate biopharmaceuticals, food, cosmetics, and general toxicology markets. 
DDDPlus mechanistically simulates in vitro (laboratory) experiments that measure the rate of dissolution of a drug as well as, if desired, the additives (excipients) in a particular dosage form (e.g., powder, tablet, capsule, or injectable solids) under a variety of experimental conditions. This unique software program is used by formulation scientists in industry and the FDA to (1) understand the physical mechanisms affecting the disintegration and dissolution rates of various formulations, (2) reduce the number of cut-and-try attempts to design new drug formulations, and (3) design in vitro dissolution experiments to better mimic in vivo (animal and human) conditions. Version 5.0 of DDDPlus, which added a number of significant enhancements, was released in April 2016. This version added new formulation types (controlled release bilayer tablet, delayed release coated tablet, and immediate release coated beads), expanded formulation specification options, biorelevant solubilities and surfactant effects on dissolution, tablet compression and disintegration models, links with GastroPlus, and updated licensing. Current improvements in development and testing include new capabilities to simulate in vitro dissolution experiments for long-acting injectable microspheres as part of our work under the FDA-funded grant mentioned above. 
MembranePlus was released in October 2014. Similar to DDDPlus, MembranePlus mechanistically simulates laboratory experiments, but in this case, the experiments are for measuring permeability of drug-like molecules through various membranes, including several different standard cell cultures (Caco-2, MDCK), as well as artificially formulated membranes (PAMPA). The value of such simulations derives from the fact that when the permeabilities of the same molecules are measured in different laboratories using (supposedly) the same experimental conditions, the results are often significantly different. These differences are caused by a complex interplay of factors in how the experiment was set up and run. MembranePlus simulates these experiments with their specific experimental details, and this enables scientists to better interpret how results from specific experimental protocols can be used to predict permeability in human and animals, which is the ultimate goal. 
On August 25, 2016, we announced the release of a new standalone software product called PKPlus, based on the internal PKPlus Module in GastroPlus that has been available since 2000. The PKPlus Module in GastroPlus provides quick and easy fitting of compartmental pharmacokinetic (PK) models as well as a simple noncompartmental analysis (NCA) for intravenous and extravascular (oral, dermal, ocular, pulmonary, etc.) doses; however, the PKPlus Module in GastroPlus was not designed to meet all of the requirements for performing these analyses for Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials, nor to produce report-quality output for regulatory submissions. The standalone PKPlus program provides the full level of functionality needed by pharmaceutical industry scientists to perform the analyses and generate the outputs needed to fully satisfy regulatory agency requirements for both more complex NCA as well as compartmental PK modeling. After receiving considerable feedback on version 1.0, we began modifying the program to include a number of additional features requested by our users and potential users for release in version 2.0. We believe the potential number of eventual users for PKPlus is in the thousands worldwide and that it has the potential to eventually become a significant revenue producer. 
ADMET (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion, and Toxicity) Predictor is a chemistry-based computer program that takes molecular structures (i.e., drawings of molecules represented in various formats) as inputs and predicts approximately 150 different properties for them at an average rate of over 100,000 compounds per hour on a modern laptop computer. This capability allows chemists to generate estimates for a large number of important molecular properties without the need to synthesize and test the molecules, as well as to generate estimates of unknown properties for molecules that have been synthesized, but for which only a limited number of experimental properties have been measured. Thus, a chemist can assess the likely success of a large number of existing molecules in a company’s chemical library, as well as molecules that have never been made, by providing only their molecular structures, either by drawing them using a tool such as our MedChem Designer software, or by automatically generating large numbers of molecules using various computer algorithms, including those embedded in our MedChem Studio software. 
ADMET Predictor has enjoyed top-ranked for predictive accuracy in multiple peer-reviewed, independent comparison studies for many years, while generating its results at a very high throughput rate. Although the state of the art of this type of software does not enable identifying the best molecule in a series, it does allow early screening of molecules that are highly likely to fail as potential drug candidates (i.e., the worst molecules, which is typically the majority of a virtual chemical library) before synthesizing and testing them. Thus, millions of virtual compounds can be created and screened in a day, compared to potentially months or years of work to actually synthesize and test a much smaller number of actual compounds. 
Our proprietary ADMET Risk score provides a single number that tells the chemist how many default threshold values for various predicted properties were crossed (or violated) by each structure. Thus, in a single number, the chemist can instantly compare the effects of different structural changes in many dimensions. The ideal score is zero; however, a low score greater than zero might be acceptable, depending on what property(s) caused the points to be assigned. If the number is too high (greater than 5 or 6), the molecule is not likely to be successful as a drug. The default rules can be modified and new rules can be added by the user to include any desired rule set based on any combination of calculated molecular descriptors, predicted properties, and user inputs. As chemists attempt to modify structures to improve one property, they often cause others to become unacceptable. Without ADMET Risk, the chemist would have to individually examine many key properties for each new molecule (and its metabolites) to determine whether any of them became unacceptable as a result of changing the structure. 
MedChem Studio has been integrated into the ADMET Predictor platform but can still be licensed separately without requiring a license for ADMET Predictor. MedChem Studio is a powerful software tool that is used both for data mining and for de novo design of new molecules. In its data-mining role, MedChem Studio facilitates searching large chemical libraries to find molecules that contain identified substructures, and it enables rapid identification of clusters (classes) of molecules that share common substructures. We have now merged MedChem Studio with ADMET Predictor so that either program can be entered through the same interface, and the communication between the two programs is enhanced through the seamless integration of both technologies. We believe this will enhance the attractiveness of both ADMET Predictor and MedChem Studio to medicinal and computational chemists. 
Drug development programs rely increasingly on modeling and simulation analyses to support decision-making and submissions to regulatory agencies. To ensure high-quality analyses, organizations must not only apply high-quality science, but must also be able to support the science by being able to validate the results. KIWI is a cloud-based web application that was developed to efficiently organize, process, maintain, and communicate the volume of data and results generated by pharmacologists and scientists over the duration of a drug development program. The validated workflow and tools within KIWI promote traceability and reproducibility of results. 
The pharmaceutical industry has been rapidly adopting cloud technology as a solution to ever-expanding computer processing needs. Leveraging our 20-plus years of experience in providing an architecture supporting modeling and simulation efforts, we have developed KIWI as a secure, validated, enterprise-scale environment, enabling global teams to collaborate on model-based decision making. KIWI has proven to be a valuable platform for encouraging interdisciplinary discussions about the model development process and interpretation of results. We continue to receive positive feedback about the functionality implemented in KIWI and the value of the approach we have taken to harness cloud technology. We continue to improve functionality and collaboration within the KIWI platform, and we expect the licensing fee will be a source of recurring revenue for further development and growth. KIWI Version 1.3 was released in May 2015. This version of KIWI provided our user community with access to new features that accelerated completion of modeling projects by decreasing run times and facilitating the comparison and exporting of results across models. These features included dynamic comparisons of model parameter estimates and diagnostic plots, export of model run records for regulatory submissions, and accelerated infrastructure with the upgrade to the latest versions of NONMEM® and Perl-speaks-NONMEM running in a 64-bit Linux environment. 
KIWI Version 1.6 was released in September 2016. This version introduced major enhancements in the functionality of visualization tools offered by the platform. These enhancements include simplifying the creation of plots and comparing them across multiple models, thus accelerating the model refinement process. In addition, analysts could now conveniently copy visualization preferences across projects, improving consistency and facilitating collaboration and communication with clients and colleagues. 
KIWI 2 was released in December 2017. This latest version introduces a repository within the KIWI Cloud service to facilitate the management and organization of data and documents used and produced to support the modeling and simulation analyses used, in part, to submit new drug applications. The user interface provides a predefined directory as a default that can be customized, allows file version control, and provides a comprehensive roles and permissions structure to enhance collaboration among a community of users. As part of this initiative, an enhanced authentication framework foundation was included to provide the ability for clients to customize authentication rules according to their internal regulatory policies and procedures. In addition, since it can take hundreds of models to create one final model, an automated diagnostics dashboard has been added that visually displays the results of over 10 diagnostics that are used by modelers to decide what direction to take their modeling with the potential to significantly reduce the amount of time it takes to arrive at a final model. 
We continue enhancing KIWI as part of our five-year, almost-$5 million contract with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. 
Where DILIsym is used to investigate the likelihood that a known drug molecule would cause injury to the liver, NAFLDsym is concerned with a liver that is already diseased by excess fat and investigates the likelihood that various molecules might provide beneficial therapeutic benefits to treat or cure the disease. DILIsym can be considered a “shrink wrap” software product, usable across many companies and drug development projects. NAFLDsym, on the other hand, requires modification for each of a number of different mechanisms of action that potential new drug compounds could use to treat the disease, and so is a customized tool used in consulting projects for each new client project. 
Development of our software is focused on expanding product lines, designing enhancements to our core technologies, and integrating existing and new products into our principal software architecture and platform technologies. We intend to continue to offer regular updates to our products and to continue to look for opportunities to expand our existing suite of products and services. 
In 1997 we entered into an exclusive software licensing agreement with TSRL, Inc. (Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories) pursuant to which TSRL licensed certain software technology and databases to us, and we paid royalties to TSRL. On May 15, 2014, we and TSRL entered into a termination and nonassertion agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to terminate the 1997 exclusive software licensing agreement. As a result, the Company obtained a perpetual right to use certain source code and data, and TSRL relinquished any rights and claims to any GastroPlus products and to any claims to royalties or other payments under that agreement, and we agreed to pay TSRL total consideration of $6,000,000. All payments were made as of April 2017. The total consideration is being amortized at a constant rate of $150,000 per quarter until it is completely amortized, after which no further expense will be incurred. To date, this has resulted in expense savings over $1,250,000 compared to the royalty payments that would have been paid to TSRL if paid consistent with past practices. 
We distribute our products and offer our services in North America, South America, Europe, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, India, Singapore, Taiwan, Korea, and the People’s Republic of China. 
We market our pharmaceutical software and consulting services through attendance and presentations at scientific meetings, exhibits at trade shows, seminars at pharmaceutical companies and government agencies, through our website, and using various communication channels to our database of prospects and customers. At various scientific meetings around the world each year there are numerous presentations and posters presented in which the reported research was performed using our software. Many of these presentations are from industry and FDA scientists; some are from our staff. In addition, more than 50 peer-reviewed scientific journal articles, posters, and podium presentations are typically published each year using our software, mostly by our customers, further supporting its use in a wide range of preclinical and clinical studies. 
Our pharmaceutical software products are designed and developed by our development teams in California (Lancaster, Guerneville, San Jose, and San Diego), North Carolina (Research Triangle Park), and New York (Buffalo); team members in most cases can work remotely using collaboration software. Our products and services are now delivered electronically – we no longer provide CD-ROMs and printed manuals or reports. 
Major pharmaceutical companies conduct drug discovery and development efforts through their internal development staffs and through outsourcing. Smaller companies generally need to outsource a greater percentage of this research. Thus, we compete not only with other software suppliers, but also with the in-house development teams at some of the larger pharmaceutical companies. 
In addition, we actively seek strategic acquisitions to expand the pharmaceutical software and services business and to explore opportunities in aerospace and general healthcare. 
Our business strategy is to do the things we need to do to promote growth both organically (i.e., by expanding our current products and services through in-house efforts) and by acquisition. We believe in the “Built to Last” approach - that the fundamental science and technologies that underlie our business units are the keys both to improving our existing products and to expanding the product line with new products that meet our various customers’ needs. We believe the continued growth of our pharmaceutical software and services business segment is the result of steadily increasing adoption of simulation and modeling software tools across the pharmaceutical industry, as well as the world-class expertise we offer as consultants to assist companies involved in the research and development of new medicines. We have received a continuing series of study contracts with pharmaceutical companies ranging from several of the largest in the world to a number of medium-sized and smaller companies in the U.S. and Europe. 
On July 23, 2014, we signed a merger agreement with Cognigen Corporation of Buffalo, New York. The merger closed on September 2, 2014, and Cognigen became our wholly owned subsidiary. We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and Cognigen provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies. 
In June 2017, Simulation Plus acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated May 1, 2017. On June 1, 2017, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and DILIsym provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies. The acquisition of DILIsym positions the Company as the leading provider of Drug Induced Liver Injury (DILI) modeling and simulations software and contract research services. In addition to the DILIsym® software for analysis of potential drug-induced liver injury, DILIsym Services, Inc. also has developed a simulation program for analyzing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) called NAFLDsym™. 
Comparison of Three Months Ended May 31, 2018 and 2017. 
Consolidated software and software-related sales increased $830,000 or 17.4%, while consolidated consulting and analytical study revenues increased $974,000 or 49.1% over 3QFY17. 
Consolidated cost of revenues increased by $578,000, or 40.0%, in 3QFY18 to $2.02 million from $1.44 million in 3QFY17. Labor-related cost accounted for $284,000 of this increase, a combination of increased labor count, salary increases, and bonuses at our subsidiaries based on increased earnings. Included in the increase was $167,000 of salary expense at DILIsym. Other significant increases in cost of revenues included $179,000 of direct contract expenses paid for testing at DILIsym, an increase of $41,000 of software amortization, as well as an additional $79,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired technologies associated with DILIsym’s drug-induced liver injury technologies. 
Overall gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased by 2.24% to 76.4% in 3QFY18 from 78.6% in 3QFY17. 
Income from operations increased $323,000 or 34.7% in 3QFY18 compared to 3QFY17. 
Net income increased by $327,000, or 15.7%, in 3QFY18 to $2.41 million from $2.08 million in 3QFY17. 
Consolidated software and software-related sales increased $1,594,000 or 13.3%, while consolidated consulting and analytical study revenues increased $3.51 million or 59.8% over 9moFY17. 
Consolidated cost of revenues increased by $1.54 million, or 35.5%, in 9moFY18 to $5.87 million from $4.33 million in 9moFY17. Labor-related cost accounted for $835,000 of this increase, a combination of increased labor count, salary increases, and bonuses at our subsidiaries based on increased earnings. Included in the increase was $288,000 of salary expenses at DILIsym. Other significant increases in cost of revenues included $88,000 of software amortization, $458,000 of direct contract expenses paid for testing at DILIsym, as well as an additional $237,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired technologies associated with DILIsym’s drug-induced liver injury technologies. Training-related expenses were down $65,000 compared to the prior year. 
Cost of Revenues as a percentage of revenue increased by 0.6% in 9moFY18 to 25.6% as compared to 24.2% in 9moFY17. 
Overall gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased by 1.4% to 74.4% in 9moFY18 from 75.8% in 9moFY17. 
Income from operations increased $1,580,000 or 23.2% in 9moFY18 compared to 9moFY17. 
Other income was an expense of $100,000 compared to income of $19,000 in 9moFY17, a decrease of $119,000. The majority of the change comes from an imputed interest expense of $114,000 associated with acquisition-related liabilities. 
The effective rate for the nine months was 8.45%, compared to an expense of 32.2% in the prior year. The significant change is from the effect of the tax benefit due to the rate change applied to deferred tax liabilities. 
Net income increased by $2.96 million, or 60.2%, in 9moFY18 to $7.60 million from $4.64 million in 9moFY17. $1,500,000 of this increase, representing approximately 20% of the change, is from the effects of the reassessment of deferred taxes under the new rates enacted under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Without the deferred tax benefit, net income increased by $1.46 million, or 31.5%. 
