The interim financial statements are unaudited, but reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal, recurring nature necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
The Company has elected the practical expedients to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions, and not to record on the balance sheet leases with a term of 12 months or less.
The Company did not elect to apply the hindsight practical expedient when determining lease term and assessing impairment of right-of-use assets.
Net revenues from Avnet accounted for 40% and 40% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2020, respectively.
While the percentage of worldwide net revenues from Avnet fluctuates from period to period, overall the percentage is within historical ranges.
For the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, approximately 49% and 49%, respectively, of the Company's net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or their subcontract manufacturers.
Xilinx is subject to concentrations of credit risk primarily in its trade accounts receivable and investments in debt securities to the extent of the amounts recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The Company attempts to mitigate the concentration of credit risk in its trade receivables through its credit evaluation process, collection terms, distributor sales to diverse end customers and through geographical dispersion of sales.
Xilinx generally does not require collateral for receivables from its end customers or distributors.
The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements established by the FASB defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.The most recent modification was made on April 3, 2016, which was the beginning of our fiscal 2017, whereby we reclassified our product categories to be consistent with how these categories are analyzed and reviewed internally.
One end customer accounted for 12% and 10% of our worldwide net revenues for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, respectively.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our worldwide net revenues for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019.Contingencies" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Item 1.
The following risk factors and other information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be carefully considered.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations.
We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations.
We also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.