fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X, and should be read in conjunction with the Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2017.
The interim financial statements are unaudited, but reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal, recurring nature necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
Note 2.Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the authoritative guidance, as amended, that outlines a new global revenue recognition standard that replaces virtually all existing U.S. GAAP guidance on contracts with customers and the related other assets and deferred costs.
The authoritative guidance provides a five-step process for recognizing revenue that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The new authoritative guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application.
However, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, it is expected that the new authoritative guidance would require the Company to recognize revenue and cost relating to distributor sales upon product delivery (Sell-In), subject to estimated allowance for distributor price adjustments and rights of return, rather than deferring the distributor sales upon product delivery and subsequently recognizing revenue when the product is sold by the distributor to the end customer (Sell-Through).
The new authoritative guidance also changes certain disclosure requirements and other aspects of current U.S. GAAP.
Upon adoption, the Company will record all of the unrealized gains or losses from its investment in mutual funds and equity securities to retained earnings, and subsequent changes in fair value from such investments will be recorded under its consolidated statements of income.
The new authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
In August 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for cash flow classification.
The new guidance will reduce diversity in practice and result in fewer changes to the terms of an award being accounted for as modifications.
The guidance permits more hedging strategies to be eligible for hedge accounting and simplifies the application of hedge accounting guidance in areas where practice issues exist.
Note 3.Significant Customers and Concentrations of Credit Risk Avnet, Inc. (Avnet), one of the Company’s distributors, distributes the Company’s products worldwide.
As of December 30, 2017 and April 1, 2017, Avnet accounted for 64% and 59% of the Company’s total net accounts receivable, respectively.
Xilinx is subject to concentrations of credit risk primarily in its trade accounts receivable and investments in debt securities to the extent of the amounts recorded on the consolidated balance sheet.
The Company attempts to mitigate the concentration of credit risk in its trade receivables through its credit evaluation process, collection terms, distributor sales to diverse end customers and through geographical dispersion of sales.


item2.txt
The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
The most recent modification was made on April 3, 2016, which was the beginning of our fiscal year 2017, whereby we reclassified our product categories to be consistent with how these categories are analyzed and reviewed internally.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal years 2018 and 2017.
For the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, approximately 52% of our net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or their subcontract manufacturers.


item3.txt
Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $3.29 billion as of December 30, 2017, and to our interest rate swap contracts in relation to the issuance of the 2024 Notes (as our interest rate swap contracts carry a variable interest rate based on LIBOR plus a spread).


item4.txt



part2.txt
Contingencies" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Item 1.
The following risk factors and other information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be carefully considered.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations.
We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations.
Most of our wafers are manufactured in Taiwan by TSMC and UMC.
Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between us and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
We are dependent on these foundries to supply the substantial majority of our wafers.
We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes.


