fls.txt



item1.txt
The interim financial statements are unaudited, but reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal, recurring nature necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
The Company has elected the practical expedients to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions, and not to record on the balance sheet leases with a term of 12 months or less.
The Company did not elect to apply the hindsight practical expedient when determining lease term and assessing impairment of right-of-use assets.
Net revenues from Avnet accounted for 40% and 52% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively.
While the percentage of worldwide net revenues from Avnet fluctuates from period to period, overall the percentage is within historical ranges.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019, approximately 50% and 63%, respectively, of the Company's net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or their subcontract manufacturers.
Xilinx is subject to concentrations of credit risk primarily in its trade accounts receivable and investments in debt securities to the extent of the amounts recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
Xilinx generally does not require collateral for receivables from its end customers or distributors.
No other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019.
The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements established by the FASB defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which Xilinx would transact and also considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions and risk of nonperformance.
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The Company’s Level 1 assets consist of U.S. government securities and money market funds.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair value measurements are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar valuation techniques, as well as significant management judgment or estimation.
For certain of the Company’s financial instruments, including cash held in banks, accounts receivable and accounts payable, the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities, and are therefore excluded from the fair value tables above.


item2.txt
The most recent modification was made on April 3, 2016, which was the beginning of our fiscal 2017, whereby we reclassified our product categories to be consistent with how these categories are analyzed and reviewed internally.
Net revenues from Advanced Products increased in the first three months of fiscal 2020 compared to the comparable prior year period.
Net revenues from Core Products decreased in the first three months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.
Net revenues from Automotive, Broadcast and Consumer increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the first three months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.


item3.txt
In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Contingencies" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Item 1.
The following risk factors and other information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be carefully considered.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations.
We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations.
We also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
We are dependent on these foundries to supply the substantial majority of our wafers.
We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business.


