ITEM 1.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Index
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Comprehensive Income
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Stockholders’ Deficit
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of HP and its wholly-owned subsidiaries are prepared in conformity with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 13, 2018.
The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2018 was derived from audited financial statements.
Principles of Consolidation
The Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements include the accounts of HP and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which HP has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Reclassifications
Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP implemented an organizational change to align its business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
HP reflected this change to its business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
The reporting change had no impact to previously reported segment net revenue, consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net earnings per share (“EPS”).
For detailed discussion, see Note 2, “Segment Information”.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in HP’s Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements and accompanying notes.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
Separation Transaction
 On November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“Hewlett Packard Enterprise”), Hewlett-Packard Company’s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the “Separation”).
In connection with the Separation, HP entered into a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and various other agreements with Hewlett Packard Enterprise that provide a framework for the relationships between the parties.
For more information on the impacts of these agreements, see Note 6, “Supplementary Financial Information”, Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” and Note 13, “Guarantees, Indemnifications and Warranties”.
 Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
In March 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance, which addresses the improvement of the presentation of net periodic pension and net periodic post-retirement benefit cost.
The guidance requires entities to present the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost in the same income statement line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period.
Additionally, the guidance requires that companies present the other components of the net periodic benefit cost separately from the line item that includes service cost and any other subtotal of income from operations.
The amendments in this guidance are to be applied retrospectively for presentation in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings.
A practical expedient allows companies to use the amount disclosed in its pension and other post-retirement plan note for the prior comparative periods as the estimation basis for applying the retrospective presentation requirements.
HP adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and elected to use the practical expedient.
The adoption of this guidance has no impact on net earnings.
The reclassification resulted in an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses and a reduction in interest and other, net of $58 million and $118 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively.
In November 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which addresses the presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
The guidance requires entities to present the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
As a result, entities will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
HP adopted this guidance in the
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The implementation of this guidance did not have any impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting for Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.
The guidance (Topic 740) requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
It also requires modified retrospective transition with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption.
HP adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The implementation of this guidance resulted in $353 million of net reduction to its prepaid tax asset adjusted through accumulated deficit.
In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments on the statement of cash flows.
HP adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The implementation of this guidance did not have any impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The guidance (Topic 825-10) primarily addresses certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments.
The amendments should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption, with other amendments related specifically to equity securities without readily determinable fair values applied prospectively.
HP adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The implementation of this guidance did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition.
The amendments (Topic 606) are based on the principle that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
HP adopted the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective method applied to contracts that were not completed as of November 1, 2018.
HP recognized the net impact of adoption as an increase to accumulated deficit by $212 million, net of tax on November 1, 2018.
Variable consideration - HP estimates the transaction price for elements of consideration which are variable in nature.
Certain distributor programs and incentive offerings which were recorded at the date the sales incentives were offered, will now be recorded at the time of revenue recognition based on estimates.
Costs to obtain a contract - The incremental costs to obtain a contract are primarily comprised of eligible sales commissions which were previously expensed as incurred.
HP will capitalize the eligible sales commission costs for contracts with terms of more than one year and will amortize these costs over the expected period of the benefit.
The adoption has led to certain balance sheet reclassifications pertaining to return asset and liability and repurchase reserves which impacts accounts receivable, net, inventory, other current assets and other accrued liabilities balances.
Revenue Recognition
General
1.Identify the contract with a customer - A contract with customer exists when (i) it is approved and signed by all parties, (ii) each party’s rights and obligations can be identified, (iii) payment terms are defined, (iv) it has commercial substance and (v) the customer has the ability and intent to pay.
HP evaluates customers’ ability to pay based on various factors like historical payment experience, financial metrics and customer credit scores.
3.Determine the transaction price - Transaction price is the amount of consideration to which HP expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer.
If the transaction price includes a variable amount, HP estimates the amount it expects to be entitled to using either the expected value or most likely amount method.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
HP reduces the transaction price at the time of revenue recognition for customer and distributor programs and incentive offerings, rebates, promotions, other volume-based incentives and expected returns.
HP uses estimates to determine the expected variable consideration for such programs based on factors like historical experience, expected consumer behavior and market conditions.
HP has elected the practical expedient of not accounting for significant financing components if the period between revenue recognition and when the customer pays for the product or service is one year or less.
5.Recognize revenue when (or as) the performance obligation is satisfied - Revenue is recognized when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of a promised good or service to a customer.
HP generally invoices the customer upon delivery of the goods or services and the payments are due as per contract terms.
For fixed price support or maintenance contracts that are in the nature of stand-ready obligations, payments are generally received in advance from customers and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over time for the duration of the contract.
HP reports revenue net of any taxes collected from customers and remitted to government authorities, and the collected taxes are recorded as other accrued liabilities until remitted to the relevant government authority.
HP includes costs related to shipping and handling in cost of revenue.
HP records revenue on a gross basis when HP is a principal in the transaction and on a net basis when HP is acting as an agent between the customer and the vendor.
HP considers several factors to determine whether it is acting as a principal or an agent, most notably whether HP is the primary obligor to the customer, has established its own pricing and has inventory and credit risks.
Hardware
HP transfers control of the products to the customer at the time the product is delivered to the customer and recognizes revenue accordingly, unless customer acceptance is uncertain or significant obligations to the customer remain unfulfilled.
Services
HP recognizes revenue from fixed-price support, maintenance and other service contracts over time depicting the pattern of service delivery and recognizes the costs associated with these contracts as incurred.
Contract Assets and Liabilities
Contract assets are rights to consideration in exchange for goods or services that HP has transferred to a customer when such right is conditional on something other than the passage of time.
Such contract assets are insignificant to HP’s Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Contract liabilities are recorded as deferred revenues when amounts invoiced to customers are more than the revenues recognized or when payments are received in advance for fixed price support or maintenance contracts.
The short-term and long-term deferred revenues are reported within the other accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities respectively.
Cost to obtain a contract and fulfillment cost
Incremental direct costs of obtaining a contract primarily consist of sales commissions.
HP has elected the practical expedient to expense as incurred the costs to obtain a contract with a benefit period equal to or less than one year.
For contracts with a period of benefit greater than one year, HP capitalizes incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer and amortizes these costs over their expected period of benefit provided such costs are recoverable.
Fulfillment costs consist of set-up and transition costs related to other service contracts.
These costs generate or enhance resources of HP that will be used in satisfying the performance obligation in the future and are capitalized and amortized over the expected period of the benefit, provided such costs are recoverable.
See Note 6, “Supplementary Financial Information” for details on cost to obtain a contract and fulfillment cost, contract liabilities and value of remaining performance obligations.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Transition disclosure
In accordance with the modified retrospective method transition requirements, HP has presented the financial statement line items impacted and adjusted to compare to presentation under the prior GAAP for the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet as of April 30, 2019 and for Consolidated Condensed Statement of Earnings for three months and six months ended April 30, 2019.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
In February 2018, the FASB issued guidance, which eliminates the stranded tax effects in other comprehensive income resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA”).
Because the amendments only relate to the reclassification of the income tax effects of the TCJA, the underlying guidance that requires that the effect of a change in tax laws or rates be included in income from operations is not affected.
HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
Earlier adoption is permitted.
Based on the current assessment, HP expects the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for derivatives and hedging.
The amendment improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better represent the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements and made certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP.
HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
Earlier adoption is permitted.
Based on the current assessment, HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which requires credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, not based on incurred losses.
Further, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses limited to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost.
HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
Earlier adoption is permitted.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for leases.
Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than twelve months.
HP will adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and will apply the modified retrospective transition option made available in July 2018 by the FASB, whereby comparative periods will not be retrospectively presented in the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP is in the process of completing the evaluation of the impacts from the new lease accounting standard.
Based on the current assessment, HP expects the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 2.
Segment Information
HP is a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions and services.
HP sells to individual consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses (“SMBs”) and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors.
•Commercial PCs are optimized for use by customers, including enterprise, public sector and SMB customers, with a focus on robust designs, security, serviceability, connectivity, reliability and manageability in networked and cloud-based environments.
Additionally, HP offers a range of services and solutions to enterprise, public sector and SMB customers to help them manage the lifecycle of their PC and mobility installed base.
•Consumer PCs are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on gaming, consuming multi-media for entertainment, personal life activities, staying connected, sharing information, getting things done for work including creating content, staying informed and security.
•Notebooks consists of Consumer notebooks, Commercial notebooks, Mobile workstations and Commercial mobility devices;
• Desktops includes Consumer desktops, Commercial desktops, thin clients, and retail POS systems;
• Workstations consists of desktop workstations and accessories; and
• Other consists of Consumer and Commercial services as well as other Personal Systems capabilities.
Printing provides Consumer and Commercial printer hardware, Supplies, solutions and services, as well as scanning devices.
Printing is also focused on imaging solutions in the commercial and industrial markets.
Described below are HP’s global business capabilities within Printing.
•Office Printing Solutions delivers HP’s office printers, services and solutions to SMBs and large enterprises.
It also includes some Samsung-branded and OEM hardware and solutions.
HP goes to market through its extensive channel network and directly with HP sales.
Ongoing key initiatives include the shift to contractual through our Managed Print Service (“MPS”) and solutions offerings for the A3 copier and multifunction printer market, printer security solutions, PageWide solutions and award-winning JetIntelligence LaserJet products.
•Home Printing Solutions delivers innovative printing products and solutions for the home, home business and micro business customers utilizing both HP’s Ink and Laser technologies (including laser technology from some Samsung-branded products).
Initiatives such as Instant Ink and Continuous Ink Supply System provide business model innovation to benefit and expand HP’s existing customer base, while new technologies like Photo Lifestyle and HP Smart App drive print relevance for a mobile generation.
•Graphics Solutions delivers large-format, commercial and industrial solutions to print service providers and packaging converters through a wide portfolio of printers and presses (HP DesignJet, HP Latex, HP Stitch, HP Scitex, HP Indigo and HP PageWide Web Presses).
Ongoing key initiatives include accelerating transformation of industrial prints from analog to digital.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
•3D Printing delivers the HP Multi-Jet Fusion 3D Printing Solution designed for prototyping and production of functional parts and functioning on an open platform facilitating the development of new 3D printing materials.
•Commercial Hardware consists of Office Printing Solutions, Graphics Solutions and 3D Printing, excluding Supplies;
•Consumer Hardware consists of Home Printing Solutions, excluding Supplies; and
•Supplies comprises a set of highly innovative consumable products, ranging from Ink and Laser cartridges to media, graphics supplies and 3D printing supplies, for recurring use in Consumer and Commercial Hardware.
Corporate Investments includes HP Labs and certain business incubation projects.
The accounting policies HP uses to derive segment results are substantially the same as those used by HP in preparing these financial statements.
HP derives the results of the business segments directly from its internal management reporting system.
HP does not allocate certain operating expenses, which it manages at the corporate level, to its segments.
These unallocated amounts include certain corporate governance costs and infrastructure investments, stock-based compensation expense, restructuring and other charges, acquisition-related charges and amortization of intangible assets.
Pursuant to the adoption of ASU 2017-07 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP now reclassifies market-related retirement credits and all other components (excluding the service cost component) of net periodic benefit cost to Interest and other, net in Consolidated Condensed Statement of Earnings.
HP reflected this change in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
This adoption did not have a material impact to previously reported segment earnings from operations.
Realignment
Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP implemented an organizational change to align its business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
The organizational change resulted in the transfer of certain Samsung-branded product categories from Commercial to Consumer within the Printing segment.
HP reflected this change to its business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
The reporting change had no impact to previously reported segment net revenue, consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net EPS.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements
Summary of Restructuring Plans
On October 10, 2016, HP’s Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the “Fiscal 2017 Plan”), which HP expected would be implemented through fiscal year 2019.
 On May 26, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors approved amending the Fiscal 2017 Plan.
HP expects approximately 4,500 to 5,000 employees to exit by the end of fiscal year 2019.
HP estimates that it will incur aggregate pre-tax charges of approximately $700 million relating to labor and non-labor actions.
HP estimates that approximately half of the expected cumulative pre-tax costs will relate to severance and the remaining costs will relate to infrastructure, non-labor actions and other charges.
Other Charges
Other charges include non-recurring costs, including those as a result of Separation, and are distinct from ongoing operational costs.
These costs primarily relate to information technology costs such as advisory, consulting and non-recurring labor costs.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, HP incurred $6 million and $8 million of other charges, respectively.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, HP incurred $11 million and $24 million of other charges, respectively.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Employer Contributions and Funding Policy
HP’s policy is to fund its pension plans so that it makes at least the minimum contribution required by local government, funding and taxing authorities.
During fiscal year 2019, HP anticipates making contributions of approximately $46 million to its non-U.S. pension plans, approximately $32 million to its U.S. non-qualified plan participants and approximately $6 million to cover benefit claims under HP’s post-retirement benefit plans.
During the six months ended April 30, 2019, HP contributed $15 million to its non-U.S. pension plans, paid $17 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified plan participants.
HP’s pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and obligations depend on various assumptions.
Differences between expected and actual returns on investments and changes in discount rates and other actuarial assumptions are reflected as unrecognized gains or losses, and such gains or losses are amortized to earnings in future periods.
A deterioration in the funded status of a plan could result in a need for additional company contributions or an increase in net pension and post-retirement benefit costs in future periods.
Actuarial gains or losses are determined at the measurement date and amortized over the remaining service life for active plans or the life expectancy of plan participants for frozen plans.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Provision for Taxes
On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted into law.
Given the significance of the legislation, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (SAB 118) in December 2017, which allows registrants to record provisional amounts during a one year “measurement period”.
As of January 31, 2019, HP had completed its accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA with no material changes to the provisional amounts recorded during the measurement period.
In January 2018, the FASB released guidance on the accounting for tax on the Global Minimum Tax provisions of TCJA.
The Global Minimum Tax provisions impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations.
The guidance indicates that either accounting for deferred taxes related to Global Minimum Tax inclusions or to treat any taxes on Global Minimum Tax inclusions as period cost are both acceptable methods subject to an accounting policy election.
HP has elected to treat the Global Minimum Tax inclusions as period costs.
HP’s effective tax rate was 11.4% and (1,162)% for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 11.1% and (203)% for the six months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% and HP’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 is primarily due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from HP’s operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2018 HP’s effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 23% due to the transitional impacts of U.S. tax reform and resolution of various audits and tax litigation, partially offset by favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from HP’s operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, HP recorded $40 million and $49 million, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
These amounts included tax benefits of $42 million and $48 million related to one-time items for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively, and $14 million and $26 million related to restructuring charges for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively.
These benefits were partially offset by uncertain tax position charges of $12 million and $32 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively, and other charges of $4 million and $14 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively.
The six months ended April 30, 2019 also included a tax benefit of $21 million related to final tax reform adjustments.
In addition to the discrete items mentioned above, HP recorded $20 million of excess tax benefits associated with stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units for the six months ended April 30, 2019.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, HP recorded $1.1 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
As of April 30, 2018, HP had not yet completed its analysis of the full impact of TCJA.
However, for the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities for the revaluation of its deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate.
In addition, for the three months ended April 30, 2018, HP recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of its U.S. deferred tax assets that were expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount due to further analysis and additional guidance.
This amount also included tax benefits related to audit settlements of $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively, and loss on extinguishment of debt of $33 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018.
These tax benefits were offset by uncertain tax position charges of $8 million and $51 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, in addition to the discrete items mentioned above, HP recorded excess tax benefits of $6 million and $34 million, respectively, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units.
Uncertain Tax Positions
As of April 30, 2019, the amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $7.8 billion, of which up to $1.5 billion would affect HP’s effective tax rate if and when realized.
There were no material changes to the amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for the six months ended April 30, 2019.
HP recognizes interest income from favorable settlements and interest expense and penalties accrued on unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for taxes in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings.
As of April 30, 2019 and 2018, HP had accrued $193 million and $141 million, respectively, for interest and penalties.
HP engages in continuous discussions and negotiations with taxing authorities regarding tax matters in various jurisdictions.
HP expects to complete resolution of certain tax years with various tax authorities within the next 12 months.
It is
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
also possible that other federal, foreign and state tax issues may be concluded within the next 12 months.
HP believes it is reasonably possible that its existing gross unrecognized tax benefits may be reduced by up to $6.4 billion within the next 12 months of which up to $706 million would affect HP’s effective tax rate if and when realized.
HP is subject to income tax in the United States and approximately 60 other countries and is subject to routine corporate income tax audits in many of these jurisdictions.
In addition, HP is subject to numerous ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities.
The U.S. Internal Revenue Service is conducting an audit of HP’s 2013 through 2016 income tax returns.
Accounts Receivable, net
HP has third-party arrangements, consisting of revolving short-term financing, which provide liquidity to certain partners in order to facilitate their working capital requirements.
These financing arrangements, which in certain circumstances may contain partial recourse, result in a transfer of HP’s receivables and risk to the third party.
As these transfers qualify as true sales under the applicable accounting guidance, the receivables are de-recognized from the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets upon transfer, and HP receives a payment for the receivables from the third party within a mutually agreed upon time period.
For arrangements involving an element of recourse, the recourse obligation is measured using market data from the similar transactions and reported as a current liability in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
The recourse obligations as of April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018 were not material.
The costs associated with the sales of trade receivables for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 were not material.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Inventory
Other Current Assets
Property, Plant and Equipment, net
Other Non-Current Assets
Other Accrued Liabilities
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Other Non-Current Liabilities
Interest and Other, net
Net revenue by region
Value of Remaining Performance Obligations
As of April 30, 2019, the estimated value of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $4.4 billion.
HP expects to recognize approximately $1.8 billion of the unearned amount in next 12 months and $2.6 billion thereafter.
•the contract has an original expected duration of one year or less; or
•the revenue from the performance obligation is recognized over time on an as-invoiced basis when the amount corresponds directly with the value to the customer; or
•the portion of the transaction price that is variable in nature is allocated entirely to a wholly unsatisfied performance obligation.
The remaining performance obligations are subject to change and may be affected by various factors, such as termination of contracts, contract modifications and adjustment for currency.
Costs of Obtaining Contracts
As of April 30, 2019, deferred contract fulfillment and acquisition costs balances were $40 million and $35 million, included in Other Current Assets and Other Non-Current Assets, respectively, in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet.
During the six months ended April 30, 2019, the Company amortized $43 million of these costs.
Contract Liabilities
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
As of April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018, HP’s contract liabilities balances were $2.0 billion and $1.9 billion, included in Other Current Liabilities and Other Non-Current Liabilities, respectively, in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet.
The increase in the contract liabilities balance for the six months ended April 30, 2019 is primarily driven by sales of fixed price support and maintenance services, partially offset by $526 million of revenue recognized that were included in the opening contract liabilities balance as of November 1, 2018.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Fair Value Hierarchy
HP uses valuation techniques that are based upon observable and unobservable inputs.
Observable inputs are developed using market data such as publicly available information and reflect the assumptions market participants would use, while unobservable inputs are developed using the best information available about the assumptions market participants would use.
Level 1—Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2—Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability and market-corroborated inputs.
Level 3—Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to observable inputs and lowest priority to unobservable inputs.
There were no transfers between levels within the fair value hierarchy during the six months ended April 30, 2019.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Valuation Techniques
Other Fair Value Disclosures
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Cash Equivalents and Available-for-Sale Investments
All highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition are considered cash equivalents.
As of April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018, the carrying amount of cash equivalents approximated fair value due to the short period of time to maturity.
The estimated fair value of the available-for-sale investments may not be representative of values that will be realized in the future.
Equity securities in privately held companies are included in Other non-current assets on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
These amounted to $49 million and $36 million as of April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018, respectively.
Derivative Instruments
HP uses derivatives to offset business exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risk on expected future cash flows and on certain existing assets and liabilities.
As part of its risk management strategy, HP uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, interest rate swaps, total return swaps and, at times, option contracts to hedge certain foreign currency, interest rate and, return on certain investment exposures.
HP may designate its derivative contracts as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges and classifies the cash flows with the activities that correspond to the underlying hedged items.
Additionally, for derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, HP categorizes those economic hedges as other derivatives.
HP recognizes all derivative instruments at fair value in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
As a result of its use of derivative instruments, HP is exposed to the risk that its counterparties will fail to meet their contractual obligations.
Master netting agreements mitigate credit exposure to counterparties by permitting HP to net amounts due from HP to counterparty against amounts due to HP from the same counterparty under certain conditions.
To further limit credit risk, HP has collateral security agreements that allow HP’s custodian to hold collateral from, or require HP to post collateral to, counterparties when aggregate derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds which are generally based on the credit ratings of HP and its counterparties.
If HP’s or the counterparty’s credit rating falls below a specified credit rating, either party has the right to request full collateralization of the derivatives’ net liability position.
The fair value of derivatives with credit contingent features in a net liability position was $56 million and $68 million as of April 30, 2019 and as of October 31, 2018, respectively, all of which were fully collateralized within two business days.
Under HP’s derivative contracts, the counterparty can terminate all outstanding trades following a covered change of control event affecting HP that results in the surviving entity being rated below a specified credit rating.
This credit contingent provision did not affect HP’s financial position or cash flows as of April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018.
Fair Value Hedges
HP enters into fair value hedges, such as interest rate swaps, to reduce the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)-based floating interest expense.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, HP recognizes the change in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net on the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
Cash Flow Hedges
HP uses forward contracts and at times, option contracts designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in its forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of revenue, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
HP’s foreign currency cash flow hedges mature predominantly within twelve months.
However, hedges related to longer-term procurement arrangements extend several years and forward contracts associated with intercompany loans extend for the duration of the loan term, which typically range from two to five years.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, HP initially records changes in fair value for the effective portion of the derivative instrument in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ deficit on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassifies these amounts into earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings.
HP reports the effective portion of its cash flow hedges in the same financial statement line item as changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
Other Derivatives
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist primarily of forward contracts used to hedge foreign currency-denominated balance sheet exposures.
HP uses total return swaps to hedge its executive deferred compensation plan liability.
For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, HP recognizes changes in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
Hedge Effectiveness
For interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by offsetting the change in fair value of the hedged item with the change in fair value of the derivative.
For foreign currency options and forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative change in fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item, both of which are based on forward rates.
HP recognizes any ineffective portion of the hedge in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the same period in which ineffectiveness occurs.
Amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period they arise.
 As of April 30, 2019 and 2018, no portion of the hedging instruments’ gain or loss was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for fair value and cash flow hedges.
Hedge ineffectiveness for fair value and cash flow hedges recognized in earnings were not material for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Fair Value of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Offsetting of Derivative Instruments
Effect of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings
Interest rate swaps agreements are designated as hedge relationships with gains or losses on the derivative recognized in interest and other financial charges offsetting the gains and losses on the underlying debt being hedged.
Gain on interest rate swap agreements recognized in earnings was $4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and $29 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018.
Gain on interest rate swap agreements recognized in earnings was $16 million for the six months ended April 30, 2019 and loss of $11 million for the six months ended April 30, 2018.
Gains and losses are fully offset by changes in the fair value of the debt being hedged.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
As of April 30, 2019, HP expects to reclassify an estimated accumulated other comprehensive gain of $141 million, net of taxes, to earnings within the next twelve months associated with cash flow hedges along with the earnings effects of the related forecasted transactions.
The amounts ultimately reclassified into earnings could be different from the amounts previously included in accumulated OCI based on the change of market rate, and therefore could have a different impact on earnings.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings (Continued)
Notes Payable and Short-Term Borrowings
Long-Term Debt
In December 2016, HP filed a shelf registration statement (the “2016 Shelf Registration Statement”) with the SEC to enable the company to offer for sale, from time to time, in one or more offerings, an unspecified amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants.
As disclosed in Note 8, “Financial Instruments”, HP uses interest rate swaps to mitigate some of the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar LIBOR-based floating interest expense.
Interest rates shown in the table of long-term debt have not been adjusted to reflect the impact of any interest rate swaps.
Commercial Paper
As of April 30, 2019, HP maintained two commercial paper programs.
HP’s U.S. program provides for the issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated commercial paper up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $6.0 billion.
HP’s euro commercial paper program provides for the issuance of commercial paper outside of the United States denominated in U.S. dollars, euros or British pounds up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $6.0 billion or the equivalent in those alternative currencies.
The combined aggregate principal amount of commercial paper outstanding under those programs at any one time cannot exceed the $6.0 billion authorized by HP’s Board of Directors.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Credit Facility
As of April 30, 2019, HP maintained a $4.0 billion, senior unsecured committed revolving credit facility to support the issuance of commercial paper or for general corporate purposes.
Commitments under the revolving credit facility will be available until March 30, 2023.
Commitment fees, interest rates and other terms of borrowing under the credit facility vary based on HP’s external credit ratings.
As of April 30, 2019, HP was in compliance with the financial covenants in the credit agreement governing the revolving credit facility.
Available Borrowing Resources
As of April 30, 2019, HP and its subsidiaries had available borrowing resources of $730 million from uncommitted lines of credit in addition to the commercial paper and revolving credit facility discussed above.
Share Repurchase Program
HP’s share repurchase program authorizes both open market and private repurchase transactions.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, HP executed share repurchases of 34 million shares and 66 million shares and settled total shares for $0.7 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, HP executed share repurchases of 35 million shares and 56 million shares and settled total shares for $0.8 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively.
The shares repurchased during the six months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 were all open market repurchase transactions.
On June 19, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors authorized an additional $4.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock.
As of April 30, 2019, HP had approximately $2.5 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations approved by HP’s Board of Directors.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Tax effects related to Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Changes and reclassifications related to Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), net of taxes
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
HP calculates basic net EPS using net earnings and the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the reporting period.
Diluted net EPS includes any dilutive effect of restricted stock units, stock options, performance-based awards and shares purchased under the 2011 employee stock purchase plan.
HP is involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including those identified below, consisting of IP, commercial, securities, employment, employee benefits and environmental matters that arise in the ordinary course of business.
HP accrues a liability when management believes that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.
HP believes it has recorded adequate provisions for any such matters and, as of April 30, 2019, it was not reasonably possible that a material loss had been incurred in excess of the amounts recognized in HP’s financial statements.
HP reviews these matters at least quarterly and adjusts its accruals to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information and events pertaining to a particular case.
Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, HP shares responsibility with Hewlett Packard Enterprise for certain matters, as indicated below, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in whole or in part with respect to certain matters.
Based on its experience, HP believes that any damage amounts claimed in the specific matters discussed below are not a meaningful indicator of HP’s potential liability.
Litigation is inherently unpredictable.
However, HP believes it has valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against it.
Nevertheless, cash flows or results of operations could be materially affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these contingencies.
Litigation, Proceedings and Investigations
Copyright Levies.
Proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded involving HP in certain European countries, including litigation in Belgium and other countries, seeking to impose or modify levies upon IT equipment (such as multifunction devices (“MFDs”) and PCs), alleging that these devices enable the production of private copies of copyrighted materials.
The levies are generally based upon the number of products sold and the per-product amounts of the levies, which vary.
Some European countries that do not yet have levies on digital devices are expected to implement similar legislation to enable them to extend existing levy schemes, while other European countries have phased out levies or are expected to limit the scope of levy schemes and applicability in the digital hardware environment, particularly with respect to sales to business users.
HP, other companies and various industry associations have opposed the extension of levies to the digital environment and have advocated alternative models of compensation to rights holders.
Reprobel, a collecting society administering the remuneration for reprography to Belgian copyright holders, requested by extrajudicial means that HP amend certain copyright levy declarations submitted for inkjet MFDs sold in Belgium from January 2005 to December 2009 to enable it to collect copyright levies calculated based on the generally higher copying speed when the
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
MFDs are operated in draft print mode rather than when operated in normal print mode.
In March 2010, HP filed a lawsuit against Reprobel in the Court of First Instance of Brussels seeking a declaratory judgment that no copyright levies are payable on sales of MFDs in Belgium or, alternatively, that payments already made by HP are sufficient to comply with its obligations.
The Court of Appeal in Brussels (the “Court of Appeal”) stayed the proceedings and referred several questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union (“CJEU”).
On November 12, 2015, the CJEU published its judgment providing that a national legislation such as the Belgian one at issue in the main proceedings is incompatible with EU law on multiple legal points, as argued by HP, and returned the proceedings to the referring court.
On May 12, 2017, the Court of Appeal held that (1) reprographic copyright levies are due notwithstanding the lack of conformity of the Belgian system with EU law in certain aspects and (2) the applicable levies are to be calculated based on the objective speed of each MFD as established by an expert appointed by the Court of Appeal.
HP appealed this decision before the Belgian Supreme Court on January 18, 2018.
Based on industry opposition to the extension of levies to digital products, HP’s assessments of the merits of various proceedings and HP’s estimates of the number of units impacted and the amounts of the levies, HP has accrued amounts that it believes are adequate to address the ongoing disputes.
Forsyth, et al.
v. HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise.
This is a purported class and collective action filed on August 18, 2016 in the United States District Court, Northern District of California, against HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise alleging the defendants violated the Federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act (“ADEA”), the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, California public policy and the California Business and Professions Code by terminating older workers and replacing them with younger workers.
Plaintiffs originally sought to certify a nationwide collective class action under the ADEA comprised of all U.S. residents employed by defendants who had their employment terminated pursuant to a workforce reduction (“WFR”) plan on or after May 23, 2012 and who were 40 years of age or older.
Plaintiffs also originally sought to represent a Rule 23 class under California law comprised of all persons 40 years or older employed by defendants in the state of California and terminated pursuant to a WFR plan on or after May 23, 2012.
Following a partial motion to dismiss, a motion to strike and a motion to compel arbitration that the defendants filed in November 2016, the plaintiffs amended their complaint.
New plaintiffs were added, but the plaintiffs agreed that the class period for the putative nationwide ADEA collective action should be shortened and now starts, at the earliest, on December 9, 2014.
The plaintiffs also agreed that the class period for the putative California state law class action should be shortened and now starts on August 18, 2012.
On January 30, 2017, the defendants filed another partial motion to dismiss and motions to compel arbitration as to several of the plaintiffs.
On March 20, 2017, the defendants filed additional motions to compel arbitration as to a number of the opt-in plaintiffs.
On September 20, 2017, the Court granted the motions to compel arbitration as to the plaintiffs and opt-ins who
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Jackson, et al.
v. HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise.
This putative nationwide class action was filed on July 24, 2017 in federal district court in San Jose, California.
The plaintiffs purport to bring the lawsuit on behalf of themselves and other similarly situated African-Americans and individuals over the age of forty.
The plaintiffs allege that the defendants engaged in a pattern and practice of racial and age discrimination in lay-offs and promotions.
The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on September 29, 2017.
On January 12, 2018, the defendants moved to transfer the matter to the federal district court in the Northern District of Georgia.
The defendants also moved to dismiss the claims on various grounds and to strike certain aspects of the proposed class definition.
The Court dismissed the action on the basis of improper venue.
On July 23, 2018, the plaintiffs refiled the case in the Northern District of Georgia.
On August 9, 2018, the plaintiffs also filed a notice of appeal of the dismissal order with the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
On October 1, 2018, the Georgia court granted the plaintiffs’ unopposed motion to stay and administratively close the Georgia action until the Ninth Circuit appeal is decided.
India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence Proceedings.
On April 30 and May 10, 2010, the India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (the “DRI”) issued show cause notices to Hewlett-Packard India Sales Private Limited (“HP India”), a subsidiary of HP, seven HP India employees and one former HP India employee alleging that HP India underpaid customs duties while importing products and spare parts into India and seeking to recover an aggregate of approximately $370 million, plus penalties.
Prior to the issuance of the show cause notices, HP India deposited approximately $16 million with the DRI and agreed to post a provisional bond in exchange for the DRI’s agreement to not seize HP India products and spare parts and to not interrupt the transaction of business by HP India.
On April 11, 2012, the Bangalore Commissioner of Customs issued an order on the products-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and the named individuals of approximately $386 million, of which HP India had already deposited $9 million.
On December 11, 2012, HP India voluntarily deposited an additional $10 million in connection with the products-related show cause notice.
The differential duty demand is subject to interest.
On April 20, 2012, the Commissioner issued an order on the parts-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and certain of the named individuals of approximately $17 million, of which HP India had already deposited $7 million.
After the order, HP India deposited an additional $3 million in connection with the parts-related show cause notice so as to avoid certain penalties.
HP India filed appeals of the Commissioner’s orders before the Customs Tribunal along with applications for waiver of the pre-deposit of remaining demand amounts as a condition for hearing the appeals.
The Customs Department has also filed cross-appeals before the Customs Tribunal.
On January 24, 2013, the Customs Tribunal ordered HP India to deposit an additional $24 million against the products order, which HP India deposited in March 2013.
The Customs Tribunal did not order any additional deposit to be made under the parts order.
In December 2013, HP India filed applications before the Customs Tribunal seeking early hearing of the appeals as well as an extension of the stay of deposit as to HP India and the individuals already granted until final disposition of the appeals.
On February 7, 2014, the application for extension of the stay of deposit was granted by the Customs Tribunal until disposal of the appeals.
On October 27, 2014, the Customs Tribunal commenced hearings on the cross-appeals of the Commissioner’s orders.
The Customs Tribunal rejected HP India’s request to remand the matter to the Commissioner on procedural grounds.
The hearings scheduled to reconvene on April 6, 2015 and again on November 3, 2015 and April 11, 2016 were canceled at the request of the Customs Tribunal.
A hearing on the merits of the appeal scheduled for January 15, 2019 has been cancelled.
Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in part, based on the extent to which any liability arises from the products and spare parts of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s businesses.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Autonomy-Related Legal Matters
Investigations.
As a result of the findings of an ongoing investigation, HP has provided information to the U.K. Serious Fraud Office, the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and the SEC related to the accounting improprieties, disclosure failures and misrepresentations at Autonomy that occurred prior to and in connection with HP’s acquisition of Autonomy.
On January 19, 2015, the U.K. Serious Fraud Office notified HP that it was closing its investigation and had decided to cede jurisdiction of the investigation to the U.S. authorities.
On November 14, 2016, the DOJ announced that a federal grand jury indicted Sushovan Hussain, the former CFO of Autonomy.
Mr. Hussain was charged with conspiracy to commit wire fraud, securities fraud, and multiple counts of wire fraud.
The indictment alleged that Mr. Hussain engaged in a scheme to defraud purchasers and sellers of securities of Autonomy and HP about the true performance of Autonomy’s business, its financial condition, and its prospects for growth.
A jury trial commenced on February 26, 2018.
On April 30, 2018, the jury found Mr. Hussain guilty of all charges against him.
On November 15, 2016, the SEC announced that Stouffer Egan, the former CEO of Autonomy’s U.S.-based operations, settled charges relating to his participation in an accounting scheme to meet internal sales targets and analyst revenue expectations.
On November 29, 2018, the DOJ announced that a federal grand jury indicted Michael Lynch, former CEO of Autonomy, and Stephen Chamberlain, former VP of Finance of Autonomy.
Dr. Lynch and Mr. Chamberlain were charged with conspiracy to commit wire fraud and multiple counts of wire fraud.
HP is continuing to cooperate with the ongoing enforcement actions.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
Autonomy Corporation Limited v. Michael Lynch and Sushovan Hussain.
On April 17, 2015, four former-HP subsidiaries that became subsidiaries of Hewlett Packard Enterprise at the time of the Separation (Autonomy Corporation Limited, Hewlett Packard Vision BV, Autonomy Systems, Limited, and Autonomy, Inc.) initiated civil proceedings in the U.K. High Court of Justice against two members of Autonomy’s former management, Michael Lynch and Sushovan Hussain.
The Particulars of Claim seek damages in excess of $5 billion from Messrs. Lynch and Hussain for breach of their fiduciary duties by causing Autonomy group companies to engage in improper transactions and accounting practices.
On October 1, 2015, Messrs. Lynch and Hussain filed their defenses.
Mr. Lynch also filed a counterclaim against Autonomy Corporation Limited seeking $160 million in damages, among other things, for alleged misstatements regarding Lynch.
The Hewlett Packard Enterprise subsidiary claimants filed their replies to the defenses and the asserted counter-claim on March 11, 2016.
Trial began on March 25, 2019 and is scheduled to continue through the remainder of 2019.
Environmental
HP’s operations and products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of HP’s products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of those products.
In particular, HP faces increasing complexity in its product design and procurement operations as it adjusts to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of its products, their safe use, and the energy consumption associated with those products, including requirements relating to climate change.
HP is also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as “product take-back legislation”).
HP could incur substantial costs, its products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and it could face other sanctions, if it were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if its products become noncompliant with environmental laws.
HP’s potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims and clean-up costs.
The amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict.
HP is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), known as “Superfund,” or state laws similar to CERCLA, and may become a party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by private parties for contribution towards clean-up costs.
HP is also conducting environmental investigations or remediations at several current or former operating sites pursuant to administrative orders or consent agreements with state environmental agencies.
The separation and distribution agreement includes provisions that provide for the allocation of environmental liabilities between HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise including certain remediation obligations; responsibilities arising from the chemical and materials composition of their respective products, their safe use and their energy consumption; obligations under product take back legislation that addresses the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products; and other environmental matters.
HP will generally be responsible for environmental liabilities related to the properties and other assets, including products, allocated to HP under the separation and distribution agreement and other ancillary agreements.
Under these agreements, HP will indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities for specified ongoing remediation projects, subject to certain limitations, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has a payment obligation for a specified portion of the cost of those remediation projects.
In addition, HP will share with Hewlett Packard Enterprise other environmental liabilities as set forth in the separation and distribution agreement.
HP is indemnified in whole or in part by Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities arising from the assets assigned to Hewlett Packard Enterprise and for certain environmental matters as detailed in the separation and distribution agreement.
Guarantees
In the ordinary course of business, HP may issue performance guarantees to certain of its clients, customers and other parties pursuant to which HP has guaranteed the performance obligations of third parties.
Some of those guarantees may be backed by standby letters of credit or surety bonds.
In general, HP would be obligated to perform over the term of the guarantee in the event a specified triggering event occurs as defined by the guarantee.
HP believes the likelihood of having to perform under a material guarantee is remote.
Cross-Indemnifications with Hewlett Packard Enterprise
Under the separation and distribution agreement, HP agreed to indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to HP as part of the Separation.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise similarly agreed to indemnify HP, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise as part of the Separation.
HP expects Hewlett Packard Enterprise to fully perform under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement.
For information on cross-indemnifications with Hewlett Packard Enterprise for litigation matters, see Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies.”
In connection with the Separation, HP entered into the tax matters agreement (“TMA”) with Hewlett Packard Enterprise, effective on November 1, 2015.
The TMA provides that HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share certain pre-Separation income tax liabilities.
In addition, if the distribution of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s common shares to the HP stockholders is determined to be taxable, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP would share the tax liability equally, unless the taxability of the distribution is the direct result of action taken by either Hewlett Packard Enterprise or HP subsequent to the distribution, in which case the party causing the distribution to be taxable would be responsible for any taxes imposed on the distribution.
Indemnifications
In the ordinary course of business, HP enters into contractual arrangements under which HP may agree to indemnify a third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they perform on behalf of HP or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract, which may include, for example, litigation or claims relating to past performance.
HP also provides indemnifications to certain vendors and customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the vendors’ and customers’ use of HP’s software products and services and certain other matters.
Some indemnifications may not be subject to maximum loss clauses.
Historically, payments made related to these indemnifications have been immaterial.
HP records tax indemnification receivables from various third parties for certain tax liabilities that HP is jointly and severally liable for, but for which it is indemnified by those same third parties under existing legal agreements.
HP records a tax indemnification payable to various third parties under these agreements when management believes that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.
The actual amount that the parties pay or may be obligated to pay could vary depending on the outcome of certain unresolved tax matters and determination of such obligation under the terms of such legal agreements, which may not be resolved for several years.
The net receivable as of April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018 were $0.9 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively.
Warranties
HP accrues the estimated cost of product warranties at the time it recognizes revenue.
HP engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers; however, contractual warranty terms, repair costs, product call rates, average cost per call, current period product shipments and ongoing product failure rates, as well as specific product class failures outside of HP’s baseline experience, affect the estimated warranty obligation.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements (Continued)
On November 1, 2018, HP completed the acquisition of the Apogee group.
This acquisition furthers HP’s plan to disrupt the A3 copier market and builds on its printing strategy to enhance its A3 and A4 product portfolio; build differentiated solutions and tools to expand its MPS; and invest in its direct and indirect go-to-market capabilities.
Apogee augments HP’s services portfolio in contractual office printing and MPS, where solutions are increasingly important for SMBs.
HP reports the financial results of the above business in the Printing segment.
The table below presents the preliminary purchase price allocation for HP's acquisition as of November 1, 2018 and reflects various preliminary fair value estimates and analyses, including preliminary work performed by third-party valuation specialists, which are subject to change within the measurement period as valuations are finalized.
The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the fair values of certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, the valuation of intangible assets acquired and residual goodwill.
HP expects to continue to obtain information to assist it in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period.
During the six months ended April 30, 2019, the increase in gross intangible assets was primarily due to intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of the Apogee group, which are based on preliminary fair value estimates of the assets acquired.
 Weighted-Average Useful Life
Customer contracts, customer lists and distribution agreements9
Technology, patents and trade name7
Table of Contents
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 and Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2019, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock.
Other than the risk factors set forth below, there have been no material changes in the risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31,2018 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2019.
If we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited.
Our business faces many challenges we must address.
One set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, which may include declines in the markets in which we operate.
A second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape.
Our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.
A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution.
For example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our global, multi-tier distribution network, adapt to new or changing marketplaces or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.
In addition, we have in the recent past and may again in the future face macroeconomic challenges, including weakness in certain geographic regions and global political developments that impact international trade, such as trade disputes and increased tariffs.
We may also be vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address such challenges given the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate.
If we experience these challenges and do not succeed in our efforts to mitigate them, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business.
If we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services, our business and financial performance may suffer.
Our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of products and services to meet the demands of a continually changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas of industry decline.
To successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the aspects of our core business where demand remains strong, identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, innovate and develop new products and services that will enable us to expand beyond our existing technology categories, and adapt to new and changing marketplaces for our products.
For example, our go-to-market strategy, including online, omnichannel and contractual sales, needs to evolve in-line with market dynamics, forces and demand.
If we cannot innovate, develop and execute evolutionary strategies in this changing environment, then we may not be able to successfully compete and maintain the value proposition of our products, including supplies.
Any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Table of Contents
Our industry is subject to rapid and substantial innovation and technological change.
Even if we successfully develop new products and technologies, future products and technologies may eventually supplant ours if we are unable to keep pace with technological advances and end-user requirements and preferences and timely enhance our existing products and technologies or develop new ones.
Our competitors may also create products that replace ours.
As a result, any of our products and technologies may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical.
After we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins.
To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product’s lifecycle or at all.
Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position.
The net revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable.
Our net revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results.
Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period’s net revenue, which in turn depends on the overall demand for our products and services.
Delays or reductions in hardware and related services spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in net revenue.
In addition, net revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect net revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities.
Competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, increased tariffs, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting our businesses may also have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability.
In addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets.
Market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, increased tariffs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations.
Moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period.
If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer.
We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers.
Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process.
Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, any failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our net revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability.
Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken.
Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or reduced assortments of our products.
Moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends.
Many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past.
Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners.
Net revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors’ financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds or operations weaken, or if our distributors cannot successfully compete in the online or omnichannel marketplace.
Our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors.
We must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges.
Our forecasts may not accurately predict demand, and distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products.
Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand.
Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods, including a multi-tiered channel, may reduce our visibility into inventories, demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult.
Sales of our products by channel partners to unauthorized resellers or unauthorized resale of our products could also make our forecasting more difficult and impact pricing in the market.
If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory.
Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or
Table of Contents
ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors.
In addition, factors in different markets may cause differential discounting between the geographies where our products are sold, which makes it difficult to achieve global consistency in pricing.
We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively.
Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers’ ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services.
Given the wide variety of products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business.
Third-party suppliers may have limited financial resources to withstand challenging business conditions, particularly as a result of increased interest rates or emerging market volatility, and our business could be negatively impacted if key suppliers are forced to cease or limit their operations.
Due to the international nature of our third-party supplier network, our financial results may also be negatively impacted by increased trade barriers and increased tariffs, which could increase the cost of certain components, products and services that we may not be able to offset.
In addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected.
Furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us.
Other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, risks related to supply chain working conditions and materials sourcing and risks related to our relationships with single-source suppliers, each of which is described below.
•Component shortages.
We may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers.
For example, our PC business relies heavily upon outsourced manufacturers (“OMs") to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those OMs to fulfill demand for our PC products.
We represent a substantial portion of the business of some of these OMs, and any changes to the nature or volume of our business transactions with a particular OM could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the OM and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that OM.
If shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all.
We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications.
Accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers.
If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to re-engineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays.
•Excess supply.
In order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors.
In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components.
If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance.
•Contractual terms.
As a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions.
If we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence.
In addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same OMs and suppliers that we utilize.
Our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain OMs and suppliers could be limited.
The practice employed by our PC business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to OMs may create large supplier receivables with the OMs that, depending on the financial condition of the OMs, may create collectability risks.
In addition, certain of our OMs and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us.
Any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition.
•Contingent workers.
We also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations.
We have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future.
We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers.
Our ability to
Table of Contents
manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws.
•Working conditions and materials sourcing.
We work with our suppliers to improve their labor practices and working conditions, such as by including requirements in our agreements with our suppliers that workers receive fair treatment, safe working conditions and freely chosen employment, that materials are responsibly sourced and that business operations are conducted in an environmentally responsible and ethical way.
Brand perception and customer loyalty could be adversely impacted by a supplier’s improper practices or failure to comply with the above-mentioned requirements or those included in our Supplier Code of Conduct, General Specification for the Environment and other related provisions and requirements of our procurement contracts, including supplier audits, reporting of smelters, wood fiber certification (for HP brand paper and product packaging) and GHG emissions, water and waste data.
•Single-source suppliers.
We obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations.
For example, we rely on Canon for certain laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges.
We also rely on Intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our PCs and workstations, and we rely on AMD to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for other products.
Some of those processors are customized for our products.
New products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers.
Replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations.
For some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from Intel, or the laser printer engines and toner cartridges that we obtain from Canon, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements.
In addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty.
The performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components.
The loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance.
Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes, uncertainty or other factors could harm our business and financial performance.
•ongoing instability or changes in a country’s or region’s economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts or any other change resulting from Brexit;
•longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers, the imposition by governments of additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or changes in restrictions on trade between the United States and other countries, including the impact of recently imposed tariffs between the United States and China on a wide variety of products;
•trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, shipping, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by the United States or other countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors;
•local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”);
•managing a geographically dispersed workforce;
•changes or uncertainty in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments;
•differing technology standards or customer requirements;
•import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions;
•stringent privacy and data protection policies, such as the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”);
•changes in tax laws; and
Table of Contents
•fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments.
The factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the United States.
For example, we rely on manufacturers in Taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture.
Beginning in 2018, the United States commenced certain trade actions, including imposing tariffs on certain goods imported from China and other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by China and other countries.
Additional tariffs imposed by the United States on a broader range of imports, or further retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response, could increase the cost of our products and the components that go into making them.
These increased costs could adversely impact our overall gross margin and profitability.
Tariffs could also make our products more expensive for customers, which could make our products less competitive and reduce demand.
In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the “FCPA”).
Although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies.
Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.
