Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
•Liquidity and Capital Resources.
An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our liquidity and financial condition.
•Contractual and Other Obligations.
An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.
The discussion of financial condition and results of our operations that follows provides information that will assist the reader in understanding our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document.
OVERVIEW
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
Additionally, we are investing in premium and mobility form factors such as convertible notebooks, detachable notebooks, and mobility devices in order to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices.
The beginning of a market shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Device as a Service.
We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.
•In Printing, our strategic focus is on business printing, a shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
Business printing includes delivering solutions to SMBs and enterprise customers, such as multi-function and PageWide printers, including our JetIntelligence lineup of LaserJet printers.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Managed Print Services and Instant Ink, which presents strong after-market supplies opportunities.
In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings.
We plan to continue to focus on shifting the mix in the installed base to higher value units and expanding our innovative Ink, Laser, Graphics and 3D printing programs.
We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models.
Our focus is on placing higher value printer units which offer strong annuity of toner and ink, the design and deployment of A3 products and solutions, accelerating growth in Graphic solutions and 3D printing.
We continue to experience challenges that are representative of trends and uncertainties that may affect our business and results of operations.
One set of challenges relates to dynamic market trends, such as flat PC device and home printing markets.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)
A second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape.
Our primary competitors are exerting competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.
A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution.
•In Personal Systems, we face challenges with continued increases in commodity costs, especially in memory, and the uncertainty of the market’s ability to absorb price increases driven by higher commodity costs.
•In Printing, we are seeing signs of stabilization of demand in consumer and commercial markets, but are still experiencing an overall competitive pricing environment.
We obtained a number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations.
For instance, we source the majority of our A4 and a portion of our A3 portfolio of laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges from Canon.
Any decision by either party to not renew our agreement with Canon or to limit or reduce the scope of the agreement could adversely affect our net revenue from LaserJet products; however, we have a long-standing business relationship with Canon and anticipate renewal of this agreement.
We are also seeing increases in commodity costs, such as oil prices, impacting our bill of materials.
Our business and financial performance also depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions.
Accordingly, we face global macroeconomic challenges such as the June 23, 2016 referendum by British voters to exit the European Union (commonly known as “Brexit”), uncertainty in the markets, volatility in exchange rates and weaker macroeconomic conditions.
The impact of these and other global macroeconomic challenges on our business cannot be known at this time.
To address these challenges, we continue to pursue innovation with a view towards developing new products and services aligned with generating market demand and meeting the needs of our customers and partners.
In addition, we need to continue to improve our operations, with a particular focus on enhancing our end-to-end processes and efficiencies.
We also need to continue to optimize our sales coverage models, align our sales incentives with our strategic goals, improve channel execution, strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, and develop and capitalize on market opportunities.
We typically experience higher net revenues in our first and fourth quarters compared to other quarters in our fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand.
Historical seasonal patterns should not be considered reliable indicators of our future net revenues or financial performance.
For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could impact our operating results, see the sections entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part II of this report and Item 1A of part I in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
Taxes on Earnings
The TCJA made significant changes to the U.S. tax law.
The TCJA lowered our U.S. statutory federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, while also imposing a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings.
During the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recognized a $1.1 billion tax benefit which was considered a provisional estimate under the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No.
118.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)
In December 2017, the SEC staff issued SAB No.
118, which addresses how a company recognizes provisional estimates when a company does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete its accounting for the effect of the changes in the TCJA.
The measurement period ends when a company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information necessary to finalize its accounting, but cannot extend beyond one year.
The final impact of the TCJA may differ from the provisional estimates due to changes in interpretations of the TCJA, and legislative action to address questions that arise because of the TCJA, by changes in accounting standard for income taxes and related interpretations in response to the TCJA, and updates or changes to estimates used in the provisional amounts.
We have determined that the $5.5 billion net benefit from the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, $3.2 billion of tax expense for the one-time transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the $1.2 billion of tax expense for deferred tax asset re-measurement were each provisional amounts and reasonable estimates as of January 31, 2018.
Resolution of the provisional estimates of the TCJA effects that are different from the assumptions made by us could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results.
Prior to TCJA our effective tax rate included the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which we have not provided U.S. federal taxes because we had planned to reinvest such earnings indefinitely outside the United States.
We plan distributions of foreign earnings based on projected cash flow needs as well as the working capital and long-term investment requirements of our foreign subsidiaries and our domestic operations.
Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount we expect to indefinitely invest outside the United States and the amounts we expect to distribute to the United States and provide the U.S. federal taxes due on amounts expected to be distributed to the United States.
Further, as a result of certain employment actions and capital investments we have undertaken, income from manufacturing activities in certain jurisdictions is subject to reduced tax rates and, in some cases, is wholly exempt from taxes for fiscal years through 2027.
Material changes in our estimates of cash, working capital and long-term investment requirements in the various jurisdictions in which we do business could impact how future earnings are repatriated to the United States, and our related future effective tax rate.
The effects of the TCJA related to these policies are referenced and discussed in detail in Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements see Note 1, “Basis of Presentation”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Revenue from our international operations has historically represented, and we expect will continue to represent, a majority of our overall net revenue.
As a result, our net revenue growth has been impacted, and we expect it will continue to be impacted, by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
In order to provide a framework for assessing performance excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we supplement the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue with the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a constant currency basis, which excludes the effect of foreign currency exchange fluctuations calculated by translating current period revenues using monthly average exchange rates from the comparative period and hedging activities from the prior-year period and does not adjust for any repricing or demand impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
This information is provided so that net revenue can be viewed with and without the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which is consistent with how management evaluates our net revenue results and trends, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of ongoing operating results.
The constant currency measures are provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a GAAP basis.
Other companies may calculate and define similarly labeled items differently, which may limit the usefulness of this measure for comparative purposes.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)
Net Revenue
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, total net revenue increased 14% (increased 13% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.
U.S. net revenue increased 9% to $5.0 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 17% to $9.5 billion.
The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Supplies revenue and favorable foreign currency impacts.
A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment net revenue is included in “Segment Information” below.
Gross Margin
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, our gross margin increased 0.1 percentage points, as compared to the prior-year period, primarily driven by improved rate in Printing due to productivity improvements, partially offset by higher commodity costs in Personal Systems.
A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment gross margins is included under “Segment Information” below.
Operating Expenses
Research and Development
Selling, General and Administrative
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14.9% for the three months ended January 31, 2018, as compared to the prior-year period, primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and incremental go-to-market investments to support revenue growth.
Restructuring and Other Charges
Restructuring and other charges for the three months ended January 31, 2018 relate primarily to the Fiscal 2017 Plan and certain non-recurring costs, including those as a result of the Separation.
Amortization of Intangible Assets
Amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended January 31, 2018 relates primarily to intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Interest and Other, Net
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)
Interest and other, net expense decreased by $13 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018, as compared to the prior-year period, partially due to lower foreign currency transaction losses.
Provision for Taxes
As a result of U.S. tax reform, we revised our estimated annual effective tax rate to reflect the change in the U.S. federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 23%.
Our effective tax rate was (114.1%) and 21.2% for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 23% and the Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended January 31, 2018 is primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform, and favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world.
For the three months ended January 31, 2017 our effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world.
We have not provided U.S. taxes for all foreign earnings because we plan to reinvest some of those earnings indefinitely outside the United States.
During the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded $1.1 billion of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
As discussed in the Note 6 we have not yet completed our analysis of the full impact of TCJA however we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities for the revaluation of our deferred assets and liabilities to the new US rate of 21%.
This amount also included tax benefits related to audit settlements, acquisition charges and other tax benefits of $32 million, $18 million and $12 million, respectively, offset by uncertain tax position charges of $43 million.
During the three months ended January 31, 2017, we recorded $1 million of net tax benefit related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
This amount included a tax benefit of $17 million related to uncertain tax positions and a tax benefit of $19 million related to restructuring charges.
These tax benefits were offset by $26 million related to State tax provision to return adjustments and $9 million related to various other items.
Segment Information
A description of the products and services for each segment can be found in Note 2, “Segment Information” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Future changes to this organizational structure may result in changes to the segments disclosed.
Realignment
 Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2018, HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
The organizational change resulted in the transfer of long-life consumables from Commercial to Supplies within the Printing segment.
Certain revenues related to service arrangements, which are being eliminated for the purposes of reporting HP’s consolidated net revenue, have now been reclassified from Other to segments.
HP has reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
The reporting change had no impact on previously reported consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net earnings per share.
Personal Systems
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)
Three months ended January 31, 2018 compared with three months ended January 31, 2017
Personal Systems net revenue increased 14.9% (increased 13.0% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations and favorable foreign currency impacts.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 7.3% increase in unit volume combined with a 7.1% increase in average selling prices (“ASPs”) as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in unit volume was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Desktops.
The increase in ASPs was due to favorable pricing rate, foreign currency impacts and positive mix shifts.
Consumer revenue increased 12.6% for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs.
Commercial revenue increased 16.2% as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations.
Net revenue increased 16.6% in Desktops, 14.4% in Notebooks and 10.6% in Workstations as compared to the prior-year period.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 0.2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The decrease was primarily due to a decline in gross margin partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses.
The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to an increase in commodity cost partially offset by higher ASPs.
Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to operating expense management.
Printing
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)
Three months ended January 31, 2018 compared with three months ended January 31, 2017
Printing net revenue increased 13.7% (increased 12.4% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in net revenue was driven by increases in both Supplies and Hardware revenue, and favorable foreign currency impacts.
Net revenue for Supplies increased 10.4% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Printer unit volume increased 14.2% while ASPs increased 6.2% as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit increases in Consumer and Commercial Hardware, including the Samsung-branded printers.
Printer ASPs increased primarily due to a mix shift to higher-end printers and favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by the dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 27.5% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to revenue from Samsung-branded printers (net of 25% SKU reductions for the three months ended January 31, 2018), A3 LaserJet and PageWide printers.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 11.0% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 6.9% increase in printer unit volume and a 5.0% increase in ASPs.
The unit volume increase was primarily driven by the Inkjet Home business.
The increase in ASPs was primarily driven by better discount management, mix shift to higher-end printers and favorable foreign currency impacts.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 0.2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in operating expenses, partially offset by improved gross margin.
The gross margin increase was primarily driven by operational improvements and favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by lower Supplies mix.
Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.
Corporate Investments
The loss from operations in Corporate Investments for the three months ended January 31, 2018 was primarily due to expenses associated with our incubation projects.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
We use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity.
We believe that internally generated cash flows are generally sufficient to support our operating businesses, capital expenditures, restructuring activities, maturing debt, income tax payments and the payment of stockholder dividends, in addition to investments and share repurchases.
We are able to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions.
While our access to capital markets may be constrained and our cost of borrowing may increase under certain business, market and economic conditions, our access to a variety of funding sources to meet our liquidity needs is designed to facilitate continued access to capital resources under all such conditions.
Our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks identified in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 and the market risks identified in the section entitled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 3 of Part I of this report, which are incorporated herein by reference.
Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with the majority of those amounts held outside of the United States.
We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed.
Our cash position remains strong, and we expect that our cash balances, anticipated cash flow generated from operations and access to capital markets will be sufficient to cover our expected near-term cash outlays.
Amounts held outside of the United States are generally utilized to support non-U.S. liquidity needs, although a portion of those amounts may from time to time be subject to short-term intercompany loans into the United States.
Where local restrictions prevent an efficient intercompany transfer of funds or restrict repatriation of earnings, our intent is that cash balances would remain outside of the United States and we would meet liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings or both.
The TCJA made significant changes to the U.S. tax law, including a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings.
The payments associated with this one-time transition tax will be paid over eight years beginning 2019.
We expect a significant portion of the cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries will no longer be subject to U.S. income tax consequences upon a subsequent repatriation to the United States as a result of the transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings.
However, a portion of this cash may still be subject to foreign income tax or withholding tax consequences upon repatriation.
As we evaluate the impact of the TCJA and the future cash needs of our operations, we may revise the amount of foreign earnings considered to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries and how to utilize such funds, including reducing our gross debt level, returning capital to shareholders with a focus on incremental share repurchase or other uses.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)
Liquidity
Operating Activities
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $229 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018, primarily due to an increase in other liabilities.
Working Capital Metrics
January 31, 2018 as compared to January 31, 2017
The cash conversion cycle is the sum of DSO and DOS less DPO.
Items which may cause the cash conversion cycle in a particular period to differ from a long-term sustainable rate include, but are not limited to, changes in business mix, changes in payment terms, extent of receivables factoring, seasonal trends and the timing of revenue recognition and inventory purchases within the period.
DSO measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding.
DSO is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average net revenue.
The increase in DSO was primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency impacts and revenue linearity.
DOS measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product.
DOS is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average cost of revenue.
The increase in DOS was primarily due to leveraging our balance sheet, particularly through strategic inventory investments.
DPO measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding.
DPO is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average cost of revenue.
The increase in DPO was primarily due to higher inventory purchasing volume.
Investing Activities
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, net cash used in investing activities increased by $1.6 billion for the three months ended January 31, 2018, primarily due to payment for the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business of $1.0 billion and collateral related to our derivatives of $0.5 billion, which are classified as available-for-sale investments within Other current assets.
Financing Activities
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, net cash used in financing activities increased by $0.2 billion for the three months ended January 31, 2018, primarily due to a higher share repurchase settlement amount.
Capital Resources
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)
Debt Levels
We maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, our cost of capital and targeted capital structure.
Outstanding borrowings increased to $7.9 billion as of January 31, 2018 as compared to $7.8 billion as of October 31, 2017, bearing weighted-average interest rates of 4.1% and 4.0% for January 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017, respectively.
Our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the period and reflects the impact of interest rate swaps.
For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 9, “Financial Instruments”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
As of January 31, 2018, we maintain a senior unsecured committed revolving credit facility with aggregate lending commitments of $4.0 billion, which will be available until April 2, 2019 and is primarily to support the issuance of commercial paper.
Funds borrowed under this revolving credit facility may also be used for general corporate purposes.
As of January 31, 2018 we had $966 billion of commercial paper outstanding.
We increased our issuance authorization under our commercial paper program from $4.0 billion to $6.0 billion in November 2017.
In December 2017, we also entered into an additional revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that provides us with $1.5 billion of available borrowing until November 30, 2018.
Available Borrowing Resources
For more information on our borrowings, see Note 10, “Borrowings”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Credit Ratings
Our credit risk is evaluated by major independent rating agencies based upon publicly available information as well as information obtained in our ongoing discussions with them.
While we do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our debt, previous downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper and have required the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts.
In addition, any further downgrade to our credit ratings by any rating agencies may further impact us in a similar manner, and, depending on the extent of any such downgrade, could have a negative impact on our liquidity and capital position.
We can access alternative sources of funding, including drawdowns under our credit facilities, if necessary, to offset potential reductions in the market capacity for our commercial paper.
CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER OBLIGATIONS
Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plan Contributions
As of January 31, 2018, we anticipate making contributions for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 of approximately $13 million to our non-U.S. pension plans, $23 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified pension plan participants and $6 million to cover benefit claims for our post-retirement benefit plans.
Our policy is to fund our pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government, funding and taxing authorities.
For more information on our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 4, “Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Cost Savings Plan
We expect to make future cash payments of approximately $190 million in connection with our cost savings plans through fiscal year 2019.
For more information on our restructuring activities that are part of our cost improvements, see Note 3, “Restructuring and Other Charges”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Uncertain Tax Positions
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)
As of January 31, 2018, we had approximately $2.6 billion of recorded liabilities and related interest and penalties pertaining to uncertain tax positions.
We are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlement with the tax authorities might occur due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters.
Payments of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities.
For more information on our uncertain tax positions, see Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Payment of one-time transition taxes under the TCJA
The TCJA made significant changes to U.S. tax law resulting in a one-time gross transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings of $3.2 billion.
We expect the actual cash payments for the tax to be much lower as we expect to reduce the overall liability by more than half once existing and future credits and other balance sheet attributes are used.
.
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
As part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.
We have third-party short-term financing arrangements intended to facilitate the working capital requirements of certain customers.
For more information on our third-party short-term financing arrangements, see Note 7, “Supplementary Financial Information”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
On October 10, 2016, HP’s Board of Directors authorized $3.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock.
This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions.
HP intends to use repurchases from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under
Table of Contents
employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically.
All share repurchases settled in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 were open market transactions.
As of January 31, 2018, HP had approximately $2.0 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.
