PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 and Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2018, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock.
There have been no material changes in our risk factors since our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2018.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
On October 10, 2016, HP’s Board of Directors authorized $3.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock.
This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions.
HP intends to use repurchases from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically.
All share repurchases settled in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 were open market transactions.
As of April 30, 2018, HP had approximately $1.2 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
Not applicable.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
The Exhibit Index beginning on page 57 of this report sets forth a list of exhibits.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
EXHIBIT INDEX
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
‡ Filed herewith.
† Furnished herewith.
The registrant agrees to furnish to the Commission supplementally upon request a copy of (1) any instrument with respect to long-term debt not filed herewith as to which the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and (2) any omitted schedules to any material plan of acquisition, disposition or reorganization set forth above.
