PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 and Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2019, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock.
Other than the risk factors set forth below, there have been no material changes in the risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31,2018 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2019.
If we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited.
Our business faces many challenges we must address.
One set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, which may include declines in the markets in which we operate.
A second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape.
Our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.
A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution.
For example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our global, multi-tier distribution network, adapt to new or changing marketplaces or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.
In addition, we have in the recent past and may again in the future face macroeconomic challenges, including weakness in certain geographic regions and global political developments that impact international trade, such as trade disputes and increased tariffs.
We may also be vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address such challenges given the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate.
If we experience these challenges and do not succeed in our efforts to mitigate them, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business.
If we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services, our business and financial performance may suffer.
Our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of products and services to meet the demands of a continually changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas of industry decline.
To successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the aspects of our core business where demand remains strong, identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, innovate and develop new products and services that will enable us to expand beyond our existing technology categories, and adapt to new and changing marketplaces for our products.
For example, our go-to-market strategy, including online, omnichannel and contractual sales, needs to evolve in-line with market dynamics, forces and demand.
If we cannot innovate, develop and execute evolutionary strategies in this changing environment, then we may not be able to successfully compete and maintain the value proposition of our products, including supplies.
Any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Table of Contents
Our industry is subject to rapid and substantial innovation and technological change.
Even if we successfully develop new products and technologies, future products and technologies may eventually supplant ours if we are unable to keep pace with technological advances and end-user requirements and preferences and timely enhance our existing products and technologies or develop new ones.
Our competitors may also create products that replace ours.
As a result, any of our products and technologies may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical.
After we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins.
To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product’s lifecycle or at all.
Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position.
The net revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable.
Our net revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results.
Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period’s net revenue, which in turn depends on the overall demand for our products and services.
Delays or reductions in hardware and related services spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in net revenue.
In addition, net revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect net revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities.
Competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, increased tariffs, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting our businesses may also have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability.
In addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets.
Market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, increased tariffs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations.
Moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period.
If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer.
We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers.
Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process.
Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, any failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our net revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability.
Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken.
Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or reduced assortments of our products.
Moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends.
Many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past.
Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners.
Net revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors’ financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds or operations weaken, or if our distributors cannot successfully compete in the online or omnichannel marketplace.
Our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors.
We must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges.
Our forecasts may not accurately predict demand, and distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products.
Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand.
Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods, including a multi-tiered channel, may reduce our visibility into inventories, demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult.
Sales of our products by channel partners to unauthorized resellers or unauthorized resale of our products could also make our forecasting more difficult and impact pricing in the market.
If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory.
Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or
Table of Contents
ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors.
In addition, factors in different markets may cause differential discounting between the geographies where our products are sold, which makes it difficult to achieve global consistency in pricing.
We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively.
Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers’ ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services.
Given the wide variety of products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business.
Third-party suppliers may have limited financial resources to withstand challenging business conditions, particularly as a result of increased interest rates or emerging market volatility, and our business could be negatively impacted if key suppliers are forced to cease or limit their operations.
Due to the international nature of our third-party supplier network, our financial results may also be negatively impacted by increased trade barriers and increased tariffs, which could increase the cost of certain components, products and services that we may not be able to offset.
In addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected.
Furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us.
Other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, risks related to supply chain working conditions and materials sourcing and risks related to our relationships with single-source suppliers, each of which is described below.
•Component shortages.
We may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers.
For example, our PC business relies heavily upon outsourced manufacturers (“OMs") to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those OMs to fulfill demand for our PC products.
We represent a substantial portion of the business of some of these OMs, and any changes to the nature or volume of our business transactions with a particular OM could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the OM and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that OM.
If shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all.
We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications.
Accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers.
If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to re-engineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays.
•Excess supply.
In order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors.
In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components.
If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance.
•Contractual terms.
As a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions.
If we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence.
In addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same OMs and suppliers that we utilize.
Our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain OMs and suppliers could be limited.
The practice employed by our PC business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to OMs may create large supplier receivables with the OMs that, depending on the financial condition of the OMs, may create collectability risks.
In addition, certain of our OMs and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us.
Any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition.
•Contingent workers.
We also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations.
We have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future.
We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers.
Our ability to
Table of Contents
manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws.
•Working conditions and materials sourcing.
We work with our suppliers to improve their labor practices and working conditions, such as by including requirements in our agreements with our suppliers that workers receive fair treatment, safe working conditions and freely chosen employment, that materials are responsibly sourced and that business operations are conducted in an environmentally responsible and ethical way.
Brand perception and customer loyalty could be adversely impacted by a supplier’s improper practices or failure to comply with the above-mentioned requirements or those included in our Supplier Code of Conduct, General Specification for the Environment and other related provisions and requirements of our procurement contracts, including supplier audits, reporting of smelters, wood fiber certification (for HP brand paper and product packaging) and GHG emissions, water and waste data.
•Single-source suppliers.
We obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations.
For example, we rely on Canon for certain laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges.
We also rely on Intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our PCs and workstations, and we rely on AMD to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for other products.
Some of those processors are customized for our products.
New products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers.
Replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations.
For some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from Intel, or the laser printer engines and toner cartridges that we obtain from Canon, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements.
In addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty.
The performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components.
The loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance.
Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes, uncertainty or other factors could harm our business and financial performance.
•ongoing instability or changes in a country’s or region’s economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts or any other change resulting from Brexit;
•longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers, the imposition by governments of additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or changes in restrictions on trade between the United States and other countries, including the impact of recently imposed tariffs between the United States and China on a wide variety of products;
•trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, shipping, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by the United States or other countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors;
•local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”);
•managing a geographically dispersed workforce;
•changes or uncertainty in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments;
•differing technology standards or customer requirements;
•import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions;
•stringent privacy and data protection policies, such as the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”);
•changes in tax laws; and
Table of Contents
•fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments.
The factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the United States.
For example, we rely on manufacturers in Taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture.
Beginning in 2018, the United States commenced certain trade actions, including imposing tariffs on certain goods imported from China and other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by China and other countries.
Additional tariffs imposed by the United States on a broader range of imports, or further retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response, could increase the cost of our products and the components that go into making them.
These increased costs could adversely impact our overall gross margin and profitability.
Tariffs could also make our products more expensive for customers, which could make our products less competitive and reduce demand.
In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the “FCPA”).
Although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies.
Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
On June 19, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors authorized $4.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock.
This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions.
HP intends to use repurchases from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically.
All share repurchases settled in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 were open market transactions.
As of April 30, 2019, HP had approximately $2.5 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
Disclosure Under Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, requires issuers to disclose certain types of dealings by the issuer or its affiliates relating to Iran or with certain individuals or entities that are subject to sanctions under U.S. law.
 HP acquired the Apogee group, a U.K. based office equipment dealer, on November 1, 2018.
During the second quarter of 2019, HP discovered that its newly acquired subsidiary had invoiced one payment and accepted two payments from Bank Sepah International plc shortly after the acquisition, under a legacy contract for copier services.
Bank Sepah International plc is subject to U.S. sanctions pursuant to Executive Order 13382.
The combined total value of the transactions was £72.49 ($92.78).
We are unable to accurately calculate the net profit attributable to these transactions.
Following HP’s discovery of these
Table of Contents
transactions and at HP’s direction, Apogee terminated the contract with Bank Sepah International plc.
HP is in the process of disclosing relevant transactions related to the Apogee acquisition to the relevant authorities.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
The Exhibit Index beginning on page 61 of this report sets forth a list of exhibits.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
EXHIBIT INDEX
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
‡ Filed herewith.
† Furnished herewith.
The registrant agrees to furnish to the Commission supplementally upon request a copy of any instrument with respect to long-term debt not filed herewith as to which the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
