A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
The list is not exhaustive, and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock.
The announcement and pendency of the sale of our Enterprise Security assets, whether or not completed, may adversely affect our Enterprise Security and our Cyber Safety Security segment.
On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Enterprise Security assets to Broadcom Inc. for $10.7 billion in cash and assumption of certain liabilities (the Sale).
The announcement and pendency of the Sale may adversely affect the trading price of our outstanding securities, our business or our relationships with customers, contract manufacturers, suppliers, business partners and employees.
Third parties may be unwilling to enter into material agreements with respect to the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business.
New or existing customers, suppliers and business partners may prefer to enter into agreements with our competitors who have not expressed an intention to sell their business because customers, suppliers and business partners may perceive that such new relationships are likely to be more stable.
Additionally, employees working in the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business may become concerned about the future of the Enterprise Security or the Cyber Safety Security business, as applicable, and lose focus or seek other employment.
The completion of the Sale is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of various conditions, which may not be satisfied in a timely manner or at all.
If the Sale is not completed, we may have difficulty recouping the costs incurred in connection with negotiating the Sale.
In addition, if the Sale is not completed, our Board of Directors, in discharging its fiduciary obligations to our stockholders, may evaluate other strategic options including, but not limited to, continuing to operate the Enterprise Security business for the foreseeable future or an alternative sale transaction relating to the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business.
An alternative sale transaction, if available, may yield lower consideration than the proposed Sale, be on less favorable terms and conditions than those contained in the agreement and involve significant delay.
If the sale of our Enterprise Security assets is completed, we will no longer be engaged in the Enterprise Security business and our future results of operations will be dependent solely on the Cyber Safety Security business and differ materially from our previous results.
The Enterprise Security business generated approximately 49% of our total revenue for fiscal 2019, and approximately 53% of our total revenue for fiscal 2018.
In addition, if the Sale is completed, our future financial results will be dependent solely on our Cyber Safety Security business.
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of our outstanding securities in the future.
•Changes in tax laws, rules, and regulations.
Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly.
A large portion of our Enterprise Security revenue is derived from arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services, and cloud offerings, yet customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions after the initial subscription or contract period.
In particular, term-based license subscriptions and cloud-based products are increasing as a percentage of our total revenues.
While we believe our customers’ renewal rates, in general, have been relatively stable in recent periods, customer retention and renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers’ level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets, and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline.
Accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers.
Our future success depends on our ability to effectively respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers, as well as competitive technological developments and industry changes, by developing or introducing new and enhanced solutions on a timely basis.
•Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access to operating system software.
If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced solutions, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues.
Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical (including cyber-security experts), sales, marketing, finance, and other personnel.
Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will and we generally do not have employment or non-compete agreements with our employees, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them.
Competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, especially in and around our headquarters in the Silicon Valley, and we face difficulties in attracting, retaining, and motivating employees as a result.
In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we must provide competitive pay packages, including cash and equity-based compensation.
Additionally, changes in immigration laws could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees.
In addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares required for issuance under our equity compensation plans.
As a result, we may issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel.
Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success.
Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution.
From time to time, key personnel leave our company and the frequency and number of such departures has widely varied and have resulted in significant changes to our executive leadership team.
our results of operations.
In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results.
To compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored by our customers.
Our competitors include software and cloud-based vendors that offer solutions that directly compete with our offerings.
In addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our solutions, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our solutions bundled with the offerings of our strategic partners, such as computer hardware original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and internet service providers (ISPs).
Our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our solutions with those of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors’ solutions than our own.
In addition, software and cloud-based vendors who have bundled our solutions with theirs may choose to bundle their solutions with their own or other vendors’ solutions or may limit our access to standard interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop solutions for their platform.
We face growing competition from network equipment, computer hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers, and other technology companies, as well as from companies in the identity threat protection space such as credit bureaus.
Security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is offered free of charge.
Some companies offer lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products.
Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these lower cost or free security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured solutions, such as those that we provide.
Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently, may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours.
Further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels.
We also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete.
Our cloud offerings present execution and competitive risks.
•Ensuring that our cloud offerings meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data.
While we continue to focus on managing our costs and expenses, we also continue to invest significantly in research and development activities, in both the short and long term, as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation in each of our business segments.
We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods.
the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect.
Any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products.
Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions.
Although in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel, reschedule or adjust with contract manufacturers and suppliers.
Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions.
Additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings.
Matters relating to or arising from our completed Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters, and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee completed its internal investigation in September 2018.
In connection with the Audit Committee Investigation, we voluntarily contacted the SEC.
If the SEC commences legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order, and other equitable remedies.
We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.
In addition, securities class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against us, our directors, and officers (see also, “We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings .
The outcome of the securities class actions and other litigation and regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions is difficult to predict, and the cost to defend, settle, or otherwise resolve these matters may be significant.
The monetary and other impact of these litigations, proceedings, or actions may remain unknown for substantial periods of time.
We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business.
Several securities class action and purported derivative lawsuits have been filed against us arising out of the announcement of the Audit Committee Investigation.
In addition, we have received demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under Delaware law.
No specific amounts of damages have been alleged in these lawsuits.
We will continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations.
The expense of continuing to defend such litigation may be significant.
We intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any defense.
Further, the amount of time that will be required to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable, and these actions may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could further adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows.
The delayed filing of some of our periodic SEC reports has made us currently ineligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3 to register the offer and sale of securities, which could adversely affect our ability to raise future capital or complete acquisitions.
As a result of the delayed filing of some of our periodic reports with the SEC in connection with the completed Audit Committee Investigation, we will not be eligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a registration statement on Form S-3 until December 2019, at the earliest.
Registering the offer and sale of our securities prior to the time we are eligible to use Form S-3 may increase our transaction costs, and the amount of time required to complete the transaction could increase, making it more difficult to execute any such transaction successfully and potentially harming our financial condition.
Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
Under Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors and officers with respect to past, current, and future investigations and litigation.
Further, in the event the directors and officers are ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover any amounts we previously advanced to them.
We cannot provide any assurances that future indemnification claims, including the cost of fees, penalties or other expenses, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover such claims.
Further, should a coverage dispute arise, we may also incur significant expenses in relation to litigating or attempting to resolve any such dispute.
We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully.
Any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect our operating results.
Impacts could include longer sales cycles, pressure to lower prices for our solutions, a reduction in the rate of adoption of our solutions by new customers, and a lower rate of current customers purchasing upgrades to our current solutions.
We or our competitors may bundle solutions for promotional purposes or as a long-term go-to-market or pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices.
These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our offerings.
Defects, disruptions or risks related to our cloud offerings could impair our ability to deliver our services and could expose us to liability, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise negatively impact our business.
Our cloud offerings may contain errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them that could result in unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our reputation and our business.
Since our customers use our cloud offerings for mission-critical protection from threats to electronic information, endpoint devices, and computer networks, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our cloud offerings could significantly harm our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses.
We currently serve our cloud-based customers from hosting facilities, including third-party hosting facilities, located across the globe.
The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our solutions.
Interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers.
Our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our cloud offerings are unreliable.
Because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released.
Our customers’ computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming.
In addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new solutions or releases until after they are delivered to customers.
In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our solutions after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors.
Errors, failures, or bugs in solutions released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand and reputation, returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others.
sensitivity to defects in our solutions than to defects in other, less critical, software products.
In addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity, security, or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer’s systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our solutions could be harmed.
Our products, solutions, cloud offerings, systems, and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales.
Despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks, and other intentional disruptions of our solutions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance and availability of our offerings and harm our reputation as a company.
Similarly, experienced computer programmers or other sophisticated individuals or entities, including malicious hackers, state-sponsored organizations, and insider threats including actions by employees and third-party service providers, may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our systems and websites and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network.
Such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication, and if successful could expose us and the affected parties, to risk of loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information or disruptions of our business operations.
While we invest and devote significant resources to maintain and continually enhance and update our methods to detect and alert us to such breaches, attacks, and disruptions, these efforts may not be sufficient, even with rapid detection, to prevent the damage such a breach of our products, solutions, cloud offerings, systems, and websites may cause.
We are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers.
For example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities, and we do not control the operation of these facilities.
The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services.
Furthermore, our business administration, human resources, and finance services depend on the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication, and other related systems and operations.
In addition, we could have difficulty producing accurate financial statements on a timely basis, and deficiencies may arise in our internal control over financial reporting, which may impact our ability to certify our financial results, all of which could adversely affect the trading value of our stock.
Although we endeavor to ensure there is redundancy in these systems and that they are regularly backed-up, there are no assurances that data recovery in the event of a disaster would be effective or occur in an efficient manner, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network.
If these systems or their functionality do not operate as we expect them to, we may be required to expend significant resources to make corrections or find alternative sources for performing these functions.
Any errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems with our products and services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses.
For example, we may experience disruptions, outages, and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our websites simultaneously, fraud, or security attacks.
In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time.
Interruptions in our products and services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network, could impact our revenues or cause customers to cease doing business with us.
We collect, use, disclose, store, or otherwise process personal information, which subjects us to privacy and data security laws and contractual commitments, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws and commitments could harm our business.
We collect, use, store or disclose (collectively, process) an increasingly large amount of personal information, including from employees and customers, in connection with the operation of our business, particularly in relation to our identity and information protection offerings.
We process an increasingly high volume, variety, and velocity of personal information as a result of our identity and information protection offerings that rely on large data repositories of personal information and consumer transactions.
The personal information we process is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local, and foreign laws regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments.
advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business.
Additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions.
Data protection legislation is also becoming increasingly common in the U.S. at both the federal and state level.
The CCPA requires companies that process information on California residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use, and sharing practices, allows consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties, and provides a new cause of action for data breaches.
However, California legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the CCPA, and it remains unclear what, if any, modifications will be made to the CCPA or how it will be interpreted.
Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of data.
The burdens imposed by the CCPA and other similar laws that may be enacted at the federal and state level may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial expenditures in order to comply.
 Global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
We may be or become subject to data localization laws mandating that data collected in a foreign country be processed and stored only within that country.
If any country in which we have customers were to adopt a data localization law, we could be required to expand our data storage facilities there or build new ones in order to comply.
The expenditure this would require, as well as costs of compliance generally, could harm our financial condition.
Additionally, third parties with whom we work, such as vendors or developers, may violate applicable laws or our policies and such violations can place personal information of our customers at risk.
In addition, our customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access.
This could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business.
In addition, such third parties could be the target of cyberattack and other data breaches which could impact our systems or our customers’ records.
•Substantial accounting charges for acquisition-related costs, amortization of intangible assets, and higher levels of stock-based compensation expense.
We have invested and continue to invest and devote significant resources in the integration of businesses we acquire.
The success of each acquisition depends in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies or synergies and growth prospects from integrating these businesses in an efficient and effective manner.
If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects.
We also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests and we may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions.
Moreover, to be successful, large complex acquisitions depend on large-scale product, technology, and sales force integrations that are difficult to complete on a timely basis or at all and may be more susceptible to the special risks and challenges described above.
In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, divest businesses, product lines, or assets.
Such initiatives may require significant separation activities that could result in the diversion of management’s time and attention, loss of employees, substantial separation costs, and accounting charges for asset impairments.
We sell our solutions to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks.
•Any consolidation of electronics retailers can continue to increase their negotiating power with respect to software providers such as us.
•Most of our OEM partners are not subject to minimum sales requirements.
•Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own solutions and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales.
We are subject to heightened regulation in our Consumer Cyber Safety segment as a result of the sale of our identity and information protection products, which we sell as a result of our acquisition of LifeLock, including a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTC Act), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the FTC Act.
Moreover, LifeLock entered into consent decrees and similar arrangements with the FTC and 35 states’ attorneys general in 2010 and a settlement with the FTC in 2015 relating to allegations that certain of LifeLock’s advertising and marketing practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the FTC Act, which impose additional restrictions on the LifeLock business, including prohibitions against making any misrepresentation of “the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of” LifeLock’s identity theft protection services.
Any of the laws and regulations that apply to our business are subject to revision or new or changed interpretations, and we cannot predict the impact of such changes on our business.
Additionally, the nature of our identity and information protection products subjects us to the broad regulatory, supervisory, and enforcement powers of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau which may exercise authority with respect to our services, or the marketing and servicing of those services, by overseeing our financial institution or credit reporting agency customers and suppliers, or by otherwise exercising its supervisory, regulatory, or enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services.
•Central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the U.S.;
A significant portion of our transactions outside of the U.S. is denominated in foreign currencies.
We have in the past and expect in the future to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates, especially if international sales grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the U.S. continue to increase.
For example, the United Kingdom’s (U.K.) planned exit from the European Union (EU) (Brexit) has caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in global financial markets and will likely have an adverse impact on labor and trade in addition to creating further short-term uncertainty and currency volatility.
Any adjustments we make to our business and operations as a result of Brexit could result in significant time and expense to complete.
future implications.
Any impact from Brexit on our business and operations over the long term will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, tax treaties, trade, regulatory, and other negotiations the U.K. conducts.
Most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary.
We seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws.
However, these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties.
Third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization.
Third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents.
Our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions.
Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the U.S., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries.
The unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products.
Any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers.
We have initiated and been named as a party to lawsuits, including patent litigation, class actions, and governmental claims, and we may be named in additional litigation.
In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could result in significant fines, settlements, monetary damages, or injunctive relief that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations, and cash flows.
Because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow.
In addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us confidential or proprietary information of these former employers.
Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations.
We have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend, and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk.
In addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business.
These third-party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all and may expose us to additional liability.
Changes to our effective tax rate could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss).
We are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities.
If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.
Any required financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our financial or operational flexibility and would also require us to fund additional interest expense.
Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs, and access to capital markets.
Our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies, and such agencies have in the past and could in the future downgrade our ratings.
In addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
In addition, we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, which are generally not guarantors of our debt.
Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent in part on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment, or otherwise.
In general, our subsidiaries will not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available for that purpose.
Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness.
Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries.
In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make the required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.
Our existing credit agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us.
A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness.
If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and, to the extent such indebtedness is secured in the future, proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness.
Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open source” licenses, which may include, by way of example, the GNU General Public License, GNU Lesser General Public License, the Mozilla Public License, the BSD License, and the Apache License.
Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use.
By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner.
In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software.
In addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business.
We sell products and services through government contracting programs directly and via partners, though we no longer hold a GSA contract.
In the ordinary course of business, sales under these government contracting programs may be subject to audit or investigation by the U.S. government.
Our Board of Directors has rescheduled our 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or the 2019 Annual Meeting, to December 4, 2019 from the date disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the annual period ended March 29, 2019.
Stockholders are advised that the deadlines set forth under the captions “Stockholder Proposals for Nominees” and “Stockholder Proposals to be Presented at the Next Annual Meeting” in the Company’s proxy statement for its 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 29, 2018, continue to apply since the date of the 2019 Annual Meeting does not vary by more than 30 calendar days from the anniversary of the 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
