The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act).
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
We provide cyber security products, services, and solutions to organizations and individuals worldwide.
Our Enterprise Security segment focuses on providing our Integrated Cyber Defense solutions to help business and government customers unify cloud and on-premises security to deliver a more effective cyber defense solution, while driving down cost and complexity.
See Subsequent event below and Note 17 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the planned divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.
•Consumer Cyber Safety.
Our Consumer Cyber Safety segment focuses on providing cyber safety solutions under our Norton LifeLock brand to help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identities, and home networks.
The transaction is expected to close before the end of calendar year 2019, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
See Note 17 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the planned divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.
•Net revenues increased 8% primarily due to the favorable impact from the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and higher revenue from our Enterprise Security segment products and services that are transferred over time.
•Operating income increased $155 million primarily due to revenue recognized in the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, lower restructuring, transition and other expense, and lower stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by higher operating expenses recognized in the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
•Net income and net income per share increased primarily due to the higher operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.
We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.
We evaluate our estimates on a regular basis and make changes accordingly.
Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting amounts are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates.
There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the three months ended July 5, 2019.
Percentages may not add due to rounding.
Net revenues increased compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to approximately $81 million of revenue from the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and higher revenue from our Enterprise Security segment products and services that are transferred over time.
Sales and marketing expense increased $7 million primarily due to a $28 million increase in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation, partially offset by a $20 million decrease in advertising and promotional expense.
Research and development expense increased $4 million primarily due to an $8 million increase in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation.
General and administrative expense decreased $25 million primarily due to a $23 million decrease in stock-based compensation, partially offset by a $10 million increase in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation.
The increase in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation described above was primarily due to the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Restructuring, transition and other costs decreased $71 million primarily due to a $75 million decrease in transition related projects costs and an $8 million decrease in other exit and disposal costs, partially offset by a $12 million increase in severance.
On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court (Tax Court) issued its opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner and concluded that related parties in a cost sharing arrangement are not required to share expenses related to stock-based compensation.
The Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service appealed the Tax Court decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (Ninth Circuit).
In June 2019, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the July 2015 decision of the U.S. Tax Court.
As a result of this decision, we recorded a cumulative income tax expense of $62 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
As a result, the final outcome of the case is uncertain.
If the Altera Ninth Circuit Panel Opinion is reversed, we would anticipate recording an income tax benefit at that time.
Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and is therefore difficult to predict.
We do not allocate to our operating segments certain operating expenses that we manage separately at the corporate level and are not used in evaluating the results of, or in allocating resources to, our segments.
These unallocated expenses primarily consist of stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, transition and other costs, and acquisition-related costs.
See Note 15 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Revenue increased $55 million primarily due to approximately $37 million of revenue from the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and higher revenue from segment products and services that are transferred over time.
Revenue increased $36 million primarily due to approximately $44 million of revenue from the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Operating income increased $73 million primarily due to higher revenue, lower advertising and promotion costs, and decreased allocated corporate costs.
Our metrics may be calculated in a manner different than similar metrics used by other companies.
Average direct customer count presents the average of the total number of direct customers at the beginning and end of the fiscal quarter.
We define direct customers as those customers in our Consumer Cyber Safety segment who have a direct billing relationship with us, including online acquisition and retention, affiliates, co-marketing, and original contract manufacturer channels.
ARPU is calculated as estimated direct customer revenues for the period divided by the average direct customer count for the same period, expressed as a monthly figure.
For the first quarters of fiscal 2020 and 2019, we estimate direct customer net revenues to be $577 million and $544 million, respectively.
To improve comparability, ARPU in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 has been normalized to exclude the impact of the extra week on direct revenues, which we estimate to be approximately $41 million.
We monitor APRU because it helps us understand the rate at which we are monetizing our consumer customer base.
We have historically relied on cash generated from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt, and proceeds from divestitures for our liquidity needs.
As of July 5, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $1.7 billion, of which $0.5 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed with the objective to preserve principal, maintain liquidity, and generate investment returns.
We also have an undrawn credit facility of $1.0 billion which expires in May 2021.
Our principal cash requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support on-going business activities, including the payment of taxes, fund capital expenditures, service existing debt, and invest in business acquisitions.
As a part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet, we may from time to time make optional repayments of our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding debt, depending on various factors such as market conditions.
Historically this has included a quarterly cash dividend, the repayment of debt and the repurchase of our common stock.
Our cash flows for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 reflected net income of $26 million adjusted by non-cash items, including amortization and depreciation of $158 million, and stock-based compensation of $80 million, compared to a net loss of $60 million adjusted by non-cash items, including amortization and depreciation of $152 million, and stock-based compensation of $113 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Accounts receivable decreased $270 million due to seasonally higher collections than billings during the period.
Days sales outstanding (DSO) decreased to 34 days in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to 39 days in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
DSO is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable by revenue per day for a given quarter.
Contract liabilities decreased $161 million primarily due to higher recognized revenue than billings during the period.
Our investing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 included cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $92 million partially offset by capital expenditures of $49 million, while our investing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 included cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $64 million, partially offset by capital expenditures of $44 million.
Our financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we continued to execute our common stock repurchase program with repurchases of $559 million.
In addition, during the period we made tax payments related to the vesting of equity awards of $52 million and payments of dividends and dividend equivalents of $51 million, compared to no common stock repurchases, tax payments related to the vesting of equity awards of $42 million and payments of dividends and dividend equivalents of $60 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Senior Term Loan A-5 agreement contains customary representations and warranties, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios.
As of July 5, 2019, we were in compliance with all debt covenants.
Dividends.
On August 8, 2019, we announced a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid in September 2019.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
Stock repurchases.
Under our stock repurchase program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through accelerated stock repurchase transactions, open market transactions (including through trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act) and privately-negotiated transactions.
As of July 5, 2019, the remaining balance of our stock repurchase authorization was $507 million and does not have an expiration date.
On August 6, 2019, our Board of Directors increased the authorization to $1.6 billion.
Fiscal 2020 Restructuring Plan.
On August 6, 2019, our Board of Directors approved a fiscal 2020 restructuring plan to improve productivity and reduce complexity in the way we manage the business.
We expect to reduce net global headcount by approximately 7%.
We also plan to downsize, vacate or close certain facilities and data centers in connection with the restructuring plan.
We estimate that we will incur total costs in connection with the restructuring of approximately $100 million, approximately $75 million for severance and termination benefits and $25 million for site closures.
These actions are expected to be completed in fiscal 2020.
Therefore, $440 million in long-term income taxes payable has been excluded from the contractual obligations table.
See Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
See Note 16 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our indemnifications.
Our Board of Directors has rescheduled our 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or the 2019 Annual Meeting, to December 4, 2019 from the date disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the annual period ended March 29, 2019.
The record date, time and location of the 2019 Annual Meeting will be as set forth in our proxy statement for the 2019 Annual Meeting.
Stockholders are advised that the deadlines set forth under the captions “Stockholder Proposals for Nominees” and “Stockholder Proposals to be Presented at the Next Annual Meeting” in the Company’s proxy statement for its 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 29, 2018, continue to apply since the date of the 2019 Annual Meeting does not vary by more than 30 calendar days from the anniversary of the 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
†This exhibit is being furnished rather than filed, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing, in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
