Symantec Corporation (“Symantec,” “we,” “us,” “our,” and the “Company” refer to Symantec Corporation and all of its subsidiaries) is a global leader in cybersecurity.
On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions to Thoma Bravo, LLC’s portfolio company DigiCert Parent Inc. (“DigiCert”).
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the United States of America (“U.S.”) for interim financial information.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted new guidance to simplify accounting for share-based payment transactions.
As a result of the new guidance, we now recognize excess tax benefits or deficiencies in the period in which the award vests.
We elected to continue to estimate forfeitures rather than record the forfeitures as they occur.
We adopted the change in recognizing excess tax benefits using the modified retrospective method.
The cumulative effect of adopting the new accounting guidance was not material.
There have been no other material changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the nine months ended December 29, 2017, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
•Consumer Digital Safety.
Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers.
This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services.
Our LifeLock-branded identity protection services primarily consist of identifying and notifying users of identity-related and other events and assisting users in remediating their impact.
With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
Operating segments are based upon the nature of our business and how our business is managed.
Our Chief Operating Decision Makers (“CODM”), comprised of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), use our operating segment financial information to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources.
Basic income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method.
Dilutive potentially issuable common shares includes the dilutive effect of the shares underlying convertible debt and employee equity awards.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes.
During the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, the conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive due to a loss from continuing operations.
Our restructuring, transition and other costs and liabilities consist primarily of severance, facilities, transition and other related costs.
Severance costs generally include severance payments, outplacement services, health insurance coverage and legal costs.
In addition, transition costs include expenses associated with divestitures of our product lines.
Restructuring, transition and other costs are managed at the corporate level and are not allocated to our reportable segments.
See Note 2 for information regarding the reconciliation of total segment operating income to total consolidated operating income (loss).
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements (the “Fiscal 2017 Plan”).
We have reduced headcount and closed certain facilities in connection with the Fiscal 2017 Plan and expect additional headcount reductions and facilities closures.
These actions are expected to be completed in the first half of fiscal 2019.
As of December 29, 2017, liabilities for excess facility obligations at several locations around the world are expected to be paid throughout the respective lease terms, the longest of which extends through fiscal 2022.
The rate change is effective January 1, 2018 and therefore will require us to use a blended U.S. statutory rate of 31.58% for our fiscal year 2018.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 was based on the historic statutory tax rate of 35%.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences.
Additionally, as pre-tax income (loss) approaches break even, small changes can produce significant variability in the effective tax rate.
For the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit of $30 million and an income tax expense of $7 million on discontinued operations, respectively.
Income tax expense from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 was adjusted to reflect the discrete effects of the Act and resulted in an increase in income tax benefit of $810 million.
We remeasured certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on an estimate of the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future.
We have not determined whether our accounting policy will be to record these amounts as deferred taxes or as period costs.
We do not have sufficient information to complete the analysis and are awaiting potential further guidance required to evaluate the impact of deferred tax accounting for these provisions.
In July 2017, we completed our acquisitions of Israel-based Fireglass, Ltd. (“Fireglass”) and Skycure, Ltd. (“Skycure”).
Fireglass provides agentless isolation solutions that prevent ransomware, malware and phishing threats in real-time from reaching user endpoints or the corporate network.
With this acquisition, we further strengthened our enterprise security strategy to deliver an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform and extended our participation in the Secure Web Gateway and Email protection markets delivered both on premises and in the cloud.
Skycure provides mobile threat defense for devices running modern operating systems, including iOS and Android.
This acquisition extends our endpoint security capabilities.
With the addition of Skycure our Integrated Cyber Defense Platform now has visibility into and control over all endpoint devices, including mobile devices, whether corporate owned or bring your own device.
The preliminary allocation of the aggregate purchase price for the two acquisitions described above was based upon preliminary valuations, and our estimates and assumptions are subject to refinement within the measurement period (up to one year from the close date).
Adjustments to the purchase price allocations may require adjustments to goodwill prospectively.
The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocations that are not yet finalized are certain tax matters, intangible assets, and identification of contingencies.
The preliminary goodwill arising from the acquisitions is attributed to the expected synergies, including revenue benefits that are expected to be generated by combining Fireglass and Skycure with Symantec.
See Note 7 for more information on goodwill.
During the nine months ended December 29, 2017, in addition to the acquisitions mentioned above, we completed acquisitions of other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $66 million, net of $1 million cash acquired.
Of the aggregate purchase price, $48 million was preliminarily recorded to goodwill.
The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocations that are not yet finalized are certain tax matters, intangible assets, and identification of contingencies.
During our second quarter of fiscal 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Blue Coat, Inc. (“Blue Coat”).
The total consideration for the acquisition was approximately $4.67 billion, net of cash acquired.
The Blue Coat results are included in our Enterprise Security segment.
See Note 2 for more information related to our segments.
The unaudited pro forma financial results combine the historical results of Symantec and Blue Coat for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 and include the effects of pro forma adjustments as if Blue Coat were acquired in the beginning of our 2016 fiscal year.
The pro forma results for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 include nonrecurring adjustments to amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation, commissions, interest on debt used to finance the acquisition, and acquisition-related transaction costs, as well as the income tax effect of the pro forma adjustments.
On February 9, 2017, we completed the acquisition of LifeLock, Inc. (“LifeLock”).
In connection with this acquisition, we recognized a liability of $68 million for a claim related to appraisal rights by a LifeLock stockholder, which we settled in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 for $74 million in cash.
On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our WSS and PKI solutions in our Enterprise Security segment to DigiCert.
In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we received aggregate consideration of $1.1 billion, consisting of approximately $960 million in cash and shares of common stock representing an approximate 28% interest in the outstanding common stock of DigiCert valued at $160 million as of October 31, 2017.
The cash consideration is subject to adjustment for WSS and PKI closing date cash and working capital as specified in the purchase agreement.
We determined the estimated fair value of our equity investment with the assistance of valuations performed by third party specialists and estimates made by management.
We utilized a combination of the income approach based on a discounted cash flow method and market approach based on the guideline public company method that focuses on comparing DigiCert to reasonably similar publicly traded companies.
The equity interest received is being accounted for under the equity method.
Basis differences represent differences between the original fair value of the investment and the underlying equity in net assets of the investment and are generally amortized over the lives of the related assets that gave rise to them.
The carrying amount of the investment in equity interest will be adjusted to reflect our interest in net earnings, dividends received and other-than-temporary impairments.
As of the transaction close date, we also had $8 million in cumulative currency translation losses related to subsidiaries that were sold, which was reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) to the gain on divestiture.
In addition, we incurred direct costs of $8 million, which was netted against the gain on divestiture, and tax expense of $137 million.
The gain on sale of short-term investment represents the gain on the sale of a short-term investment that was included in the transaction and resulted in the reclassification on the transaction close date of $7 million of unrealized gains from AOCI to the gain on divestiture.
The services under the TSA commenced with the close of the transaction and expire at various dates through fiscal 2019, with extension options.
During the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded income of $10 million and associated direct costs of $2 million for all services provided to DigiCert in Other income (expense) in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
See Note 6 for more information on our acquisitions and divestiture.
Based on the closing price of our common stock of $28.06 on December 29, 2017, the if-converted values of our 2.5% and 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes exceed the principal amount by approximately $337 million and $469 million, respectively.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we prepaid principal amounts of $130 million of our Senior Term Loan A-3 and $500 million of our Senior Term Loan A-1.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we prepaid principal amounts of $1.2 billion of our Senior Term Loan A-5 and $200 million of our Senior Term Loan A-1.
We also repaid in cash at maturity the $600 million remaining principal balance of our 2.75% Senior Notes due June 15, 2017.
Our cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds whose carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value.
Our short-term investments consist of investment securities with original maturities greater than three months whose fair value approximates their amortized cost and marketable equity securities.
There were no transfers between fair value measurement levels during the nine months ended December 29, 2017.
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.
As of December 29, 2017 and March 31, 2017, the total fair value of our debt was $5.7 billion and $8.3 billion, respectively, based on Level 2 inputs.
Our restricted stock units and performance based restricted stock units are entitled to dividend equivalents to be paid in the form of cash upon vesting for each share of the underlying unit.
On January 31, 2018, we declared a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid on March 14, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 20, 2018.
All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all shares of unvested restricted stock and performance-based stock as of the record date will be entitled to the dividend and dividend equivalents, respectively.
Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
As of December 29, 2017, the remaining balance of our share repurchase authorization is $800 million and does not have an expiration date.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we entered into an accelerated stock repurchase (“ASR”) agreement with financial institutions to repurchase an aggregate of $500 million of our common stock.
Pursuant to the ASR agreement, we made an upfront payment of $500 million to the financial institutions and received and retired an initial delivery of 14.2 million shares of our common stock.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed the ASR and received and retired an additional delivery of 2.2 million shares of our common stock.
The total shares received and retired under the terms of the ASR agreement were 16.4 million, with an average price paid per share of $30.51.
The tax expense (benefit) associated with stock-based compensation expense for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 reflects the impact of the enactment of the Act.
The tax benefit associated with stock-based compensation expense for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 reflects the historic tax rates.
In addition, our bylaws contain indemnification obligations to our directors, officers, employees and agents, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers to give such directors and officers additional contractual assurances regarding the scope of the indemnification set forth in our bylaws and to provide additional procedural protections.
We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers.
It is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
Such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses.
Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements and we have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In connection with the sale of our former information management business (“Veritas”), we assigned several leases to Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries.
As a condition to consenting to the assignments, certain lessors required us to agree to indemnify the lessor under the applicable lease with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries’ breach of payment obligations under the terms of the lease.
Historically, payments made under these provisions have been immaterial.
We monitor the conditions that are subject to indemnification to identify if a loss has occurred.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we were advised by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Department of Justice’s (“DOJ”) Civil Division and the Civil Division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia that the government is investigating our compliance with certain provisions of our U.S. General Services Administration (“GSA”) Multiple Award
GS-35F-0240T effective January 24, 2007, including provisions relating to pricing, country of origin, accessibility, and the disclosure of commercial sales practices.
We have fully cooperated with the government throughout its investigation and in January 2014, representatives of the government indicated that their initial analysis of our actual damages exposure from direct government sales under the GSA schedule was approximately $145 million; since the initial meeting, the government’s analysis of our potential damages exposure relating to direct sales has increased.
The government has also indicated they are going to pursue claims for certain sales to California, Florida, and New York as well as sales to the federal government through reseller GSA Schedule contracts, which could significantly increase our potential damages exposure.
In 2012, a sealed civil lawsuit was filed against Symantec related to compliance with the GSA Schedule contract and contracts with California, Florida, and New York.
On July 18, 2014, the Court-imposed seal expired, and the government intervened in the lawsuit.
On September 16, 2014, the states of California and Florida intervened in the lawsuit, and the state of New York notified the Court that it would not intervene.
On October 3, 2014, the DOJ filed an amended complaint, which did not state a specific damages amount.
On October 17, 2014, California and Florida combined their claims with those of the DOJ and the relator on behalf of New York in an Omnibus Complaint, and a First Amended Omnibus Complaint was filed on October 8, 2015; the state claims also do not state specific damages amounts.
This amount contemplates estimated losses from both the investigation of compliance with the terms of the GSA Schedule contract as well as possible violations of the False Claims Act.
On August 28, 2013, Finjan, Inc. (“Finjan”) filed a complaint against Blue Coat Systems, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that certain Blue Coat products infringe six of Finjan’s U.S. patents.
On August 4, 2015, a jury returned a verdict that certain Blue Coat products infringe five of the Finjan patents-in-suit and awarded Finjan lump-sum damages of $40 million.
On November 20, 2015, the trial court entered a judgment in favor of Finjan on the jury verdict and certain non-jury legal issues.
On July 28, 2016, in its ruling on post-trial motions the trial court denied Blue Coat’s motions seeking a new trial or judgment as a matter of law and denied Finjan’s request for enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees.
In August 2016, we completed our acquisition of Blue Coat.
We subsequently filed an appeal with the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals.
On January 10, 2018, the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals issued an opinion favorable to us.
The decision reversed or vacated all but $8 million of the judgment against Blue Coat and remanded to the District Court to determine whether Finjan is entitled to a new trial on damages related to one of the patents.
Blue Coat previously accrued $40 million in connection with Finjan, which was assumed by us as a part of the acquisition of Blue Coat.
We are involved in a number of other judicial and administrative proceedings that are incidental to our business.
Although adverse decisions (or settlements) may occur in one or more of the cases, it is not possible to estimate the possible loss or losses from each of these cases.
On January 29, 2016, we completed the sale of Veritas.
Information with respect to this Item may be found under the heading “Litigation contingencies” in Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
We are engaged in disputes of this nature at this time.
