Our strategy is to deliver comprehensive cyber security solutions for both enterprises and consumers.
On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions to DigiCert Parent Inc. (“DigiCert”) for an aggregate consideration of $1.1 billion, consisting of approximately $960 million in cash and shares of common stock representing an approximate 28% interest in the outstanding common stock of DigiCert valued at $160 million as of the transaction date. The results of operations of our WSS and PKI solutions prior to the divestiture are reported in our consolidated results of operations through October 31, 2017. The cash consideration is subject to adjustment for WSS and PKI closing date cash and working capital as specified in the purchase agreement. See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture.
•Consumer Digital Safety. Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers. This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services. Our LifeLock-branded identity protection services primarily consist of identifying and notifying users of identity-related and other events and assisting users in remediating their impact. With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
For more information on our operating segments see Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following is an overview of key financial metrics in millions and the respective metrics as a percentage of revenues.
•Gross margin increased 2 percentage points compared to the corresponding period in the prior year due to the mix of customer and products, as our higher margin Consumer Digital Safety segment contributed to a larger proportion of the total gross profit.
•We repaid debt totaling $2.6 billion as part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet.
•We paid aggregate cash consideration of $402 million for our acquisitions.
Our percentage of revenues from the Americas for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 increased compared to prior year periods primarily as a result of LifeLock sales which are entirely U.S.-based.
Our cost of revenues increased $174 million, or 29%, primarily due to cost of revenues related to our acquired Blue Coat and LifeLock products, including $83 million of increased amortization of acquired intangible assets and $52 million of increased technical support costs primarily driven by the LifeLock acquisition.
The following amounts are in millions and the percentages are a percentage of revenues.
Sales and marketing expense were relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
Research and development expense increased $21 million, or 10%, primarily due to an increase of $24 million in stock-based compensation expense primarily related to the equity awards assumed or granted in connection with our acquisitions.
General and administrative expense was relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
Sales and marketing expense increased $233 million, or 23%, primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including increases of $143 million in advertising and promotional expense, largely related to LifeLock, $60 million in stock-based compensation expense, primarily from awards assumed in acquisitions, and $36 million in other compensation and benefits expense. These increases were partially offset by the decreased expenses from our divested WSS and PKI solutions.
Research and development expense increased $125 million, or 22%, primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including increases of $79 million in stock-based compensation expense and $23 million in other compensation and benefits expense.
General and administrative expense increased $71 million primarily as a result of increases of $70 million in stock-based compensation expense and $28 million in other compensation and benefits expense, primarily due to the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease of $34 million in acquisition-related costs due to a lower level of acquisition activities in fiscal 2018.
Our stock-based compensation expense included in operating expenses increased $209 million, or 96%, primarily due to the equity awards assumed in our acquisitions, and the expected level of achievement for performance-based equity awards.
Amortization of intangible assets increased $75 million primarily due to the intangible assets acquired in the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions.
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements. We have reduced headcount and closed certain facilities under the restructuring plan. During the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we also incurred divestiture costs as a result of the sale of our WSS and PKI solutions, as well as costs associated with our other transition and transformation programs including the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system and costs to automate business processes. Restructuring, transition and other costs primarily consisted of $11 million and $75 million of severance costs and transition costs, respectively, during the third quarter in fiscal 2018, compared to $19 million and$26 million, respectively, during the same period in fiscal 2017. Restructuring, transition and other costs primarily consisted of $50 million and $195 million of severance costs and transition costs, respectively, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to $57 million and $71 million, respectively, during the same period in fiscal 2017. See Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our restructuring, transition and other costs.
Non-operating income (expense), net, increased during the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the same periods in fiscal 2017, primarily due to a $658 million gain as a result of our divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions. See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture.
The increase in non-operating income (expense), net, for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 from our divestiture was partially offset by increased interest expense of $65 million mainly related to the timing of the issuance of the borrowings in fiscal 2017 as well as a foreign currency net loss of $26 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to a net gain of $3 million in the same period in fiscal 2017.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 was based on the historic statutory tax rate of 35%. Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences. Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences and tax expense related to the loss of tax attributes due to restructuring activities. Additionally, as pre-tax income (loss) approaches break even, small changes can produce significant variability in the effective tax rate.
For the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit of $30 million and an income tax expense of $7 million on discontinued operations, respectively. For the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, we recorded an income tax benefit of $85 million and an income tax expense of $49 million on discontinued operations, respectively. See Note 13 for further details regarding discontinued operations.
The following amounts are in millions and the percentages are a percentage of Enterprise Security segment revenues.
Revenue increased $258 million, or 15%, primarily due to the full period impact of the Blue Coat acquisition, partially offset by a decrease of $80 million in revenue as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions on October 31, 2017. Revenue during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was also unfavorably affected by our shift to products with ratable revenue recognition as described above. Operating income increased $266 million, or 240%, primarily due to the contribution from the Blue Coat acquisition.
The following amounts are in millions and the percentages are a percentage of Consumer Digital Safety Segment revenues.
Revenue increased $187 million, or 47%, primarily due to revenue from sales of LifeLock products in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, which were absent in the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Our revenue growth reflects the benefit of the shift to subscription-based contracts and combined packaging of our consumer products, which is helping to mitigate the trend of declining revenues from sales of stand-alone Norton-branded products. Operating income increased $89 million, or 42%, primarily due to the contribution from the LifeLock acquisition.
Revenue increased $462 million, or 38%, primarily due to revenue from sales of LifeLock products in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, which were absent in the same period in fiscal 2017. We were also impacted by the trends related to our Norton products discussed above. Operating income increased $122 million, or 18%, primarily due to the contribution from the LifeLock acquisition.
We have historically relied on cash flow from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt, and the sale of a business, for our liquidity needs. As of December 29, 2017, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.5 billion.
We manage our investment portfolio with the objective to achieve greater investment diversification and higher yields while preserving capital and liquidity.
Another potential source of liquidity is our unused credit facility of $1.0 billion, which expires in May 2021.
Our principal cash requirements primarily consist of acquisitions, operating expenses, payment of taxes, capital expenditures, and contractual payments of principal and interest on debt. As a part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet, we may from time to time in the future make additional optional repayments of our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding debt, depending on various factors such as market conditions.
Furthermore, our capital allocation strategy contemplates a quarterly cash dividend and an on-going evaluation of our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock.
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements. We have reduced headcount and closed certain facilities under the restructuring plan. We expect the plan to be substantially completed in the first half of fiscal 2019 and expect additional cash charges of approximately $70 million to $90 million, primarily related to severance benefits and facilities exit costs. See Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our restructuring plan.
The following summarizes selected items in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, in millions.
Our primary source of cash has been cash collections from our customers. Due to seasonality, our orders are generally higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our first and second fiscal quarters. Cash inflows are affected by these fluctuations in our billings and timing of the related collections. 
Our cash flows from operations for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 were $684 million, compared to net cash used of $564 million for the same period in fiscal 2017. Our cash flows in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 reflected $1.6 billion of discrete deferred income tax benefit related to adjustments of deferred taxes as a result of the enactment of the Act in December 2017 and $821 million in taxes payable as a result of transition taxes. Our cash flows in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 reflected a one-time tax payment of $887 million related to the gain on sale from the divestiture of Veritas. In addition, our cash flows from operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, were favorably impacted by an increase in deferred revenue of $258 million, reflecting increased billings and collections for ratable contracts, as well as longer contract duration.
Our investing cash flows consist primarily of proceeds from divestitures, payments for acquisitions and net purchases of short-term investments. Our investing activities during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included $946 million in net cash proceeds from the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by $402 million paid for acquisitions during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to $4.5 billion paid during the same period for fiscal 2017 for the Blue Coat acquisition. See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture and acquisitions. In addition, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we had net purchases of $383 million of short-term investments.
Our financing cash flows consist primarily of issuances and repayments of debt, payment of dividends and dividend equivalents to stockholders, and tax payments related to shares withheld in the settlement of restricted stock units (“RSUs”). Our primary financing activities during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 consisted of debt repayments of $2.6 billion, while our primary financing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 consisted of borrowings of $5.0 billion, net of issuance costs.
Debt. As of December 29, 2017, our total outstanding principal amount of our debt was $5.7 billion. See Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our debt.
Dividends. On January 31, 2018, we declared a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid on March 14, 2018, to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 20, 2018. All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all shares of unvested restricted stock and performance-based stock as of the record date will be entitled to the dividend and dividend equivalents, respectively. Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. See Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our dividends and dividend equivalents. 
Share repurchases. Under our stock repurchase programs, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through open market and through accelerated stock repurchase (“ASR”) transactions. As of December 29, 2017, the remaining balance of our share repurchase authorization is $800 million and does not have an expiration date.
In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us. In addition, our bylaws contain indemnification obligations to our directors, officers, employees and agents, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers to give such directors and officers additional contractual assurances regarding the scope of the indemnification set forth in our bylaws and to provide additional procedural protections. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers. It is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements and we have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
In connection with the sale of Veritas, we assigned several leases to Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries. As a condition to consenting to the assignments, certain lessors required us to agree to indemnify the lessor under the applicable lease with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries’ breach of payment obligations under the terms of the lease. As with our other indemnification obligations discussed above and in general, it is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. As with our other indemnification obligations, such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses and to date, generally under our real estate obligations, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations under our leases and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Revenue Recognition - Contracts with Customers. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new authoritative guidance for revenue from contracts with customers. The standard’s core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In doing so, companies will need to use more judgment and make more estimates than under current guidance. These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. In March 2016, the FASB clarified implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. In April 2016, the FASB issued guidance related to identifying performance obligations and licensing which reduces the cost and complexity of applying certain aspects of the guidance both at implementation and on an ongoing basis.
The new guidance may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented (“retrospective”) or retrospectively with cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings as of the date of adoption (“modified retrospective”). We expect to adopt the new standard on a modified retrospective basis in our first quarter of fiscal 2019.
•required disclosures, including information about the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations and expected timing of revenue recognition.
We will continue to assess the impact of new guidance including any changes to systems, processes and the control environment as we work through the adoption, and there remain areas still to be fully concluded upon.
Financial Instruments - Recognition and Measurement. In January 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on financial instruments. The new guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure. The new guidance will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2019. Early adoption is permitted under limited circumstances but we do not intend to adopt the provisions of the new guidance early. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on lease accounting which will require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and will also require disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The new guidance will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020. Early adoption is permitted but we do not plan to adopt the provisions of the new guidance early. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We are currently in the assessment phase to determine the adoption methodology and are evaluating the impact of this new standard on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report. We are evaluating the impact to our consolidated financial statements as it relates to other aspects of the business.
Credit Losses. In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model. Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Asset Transfers Other Than Inventory. In October 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers, excluding inventory, at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under current U.S. GAAP. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2019, and requires a modified retrospective transition method. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance and anticipate it will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
†This exhibit is being furnished rather than filed, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing, in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
