In connection with the sale of certain assets of our Enterprise Security business as disclosed in Basis of presentation below, effective November 4, 2019, we changed our corporate name from Symantec Corporation to NortonLifeLock Inc.
On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement with Broadcom Inc. (Broadcom) under which Broadcom agreed to purchase certain of our Enterprise Security assets and assume certain liabilities for a purchase price of $10.7 billion (the Broadcom sale). On November 4, 2019, we completed the transaction. The divestiture of our Enterprise Security business allows us to shift our operational focus to our consumer business and represents a strategic shift in our operations. As a result, the majority of results of our Enterprise Security business were classified as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and thus excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented. Starting in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we operate in one reportable segment. The Enterprise Security business was part of our Enterprise Security segment. Results of discontinued operations include all revenues and expenses directly derived from the Enterprise Security business, with the exception of revenues and associated costs of our ID Analytics solutions, which were formerly included in the Enterprise Security segment, and general corporate overhead which were previously allocated to the Enterprise Security segment but are not allocated to discontinued operations. These revenues and expenses are now included in continuing operations. The assets acquired and liabilities to be sold to Broadcom, as specified in the August 8, 2019 definitive agreement, were classified as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, subject to changes set forth in the agreement. See Notes 3 and 18 for additional information about the divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America (U.S.) for interim financial information. In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods. These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019. The results of operations for the six months ended October 4, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended October 4, 2019, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 5, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
Leases. In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance on lease accounting which requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and also requires disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. Most prominent among the changes in the standard is the recognition of right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases. Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
On March 30, 2019, the first day of our fiscal 2020, we adopted the new guidance using the alternative modified retrospective transition method under which we continue to apply the legacy lease accounting guidance, including its disclosure requirements, in comparative periods prior to fiscal 2020. In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard that allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases. We currently do not have any finance leases. We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities. 
The adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities of $182 million and $209 million, respectively, as of March 30, 2019 related to our operating leases. The adoption of the standard also resulted in elimination of deferred rent liabilities of $17 million, as of March 30, 2019, which are now recorded as a reduction of the ROU assets. The standard did not have an impact on our consolidated statements of operations or statements of cash flows. 
Credit Losses. In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model. Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Internal-Use Software. In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance that clarifies the accounting for implementation costs in a cloud computing arrangement. The new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures. 
On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement with Broadcom under which Broadcom agreed to purchase certain of our Enterprise Security assets and assume certain liabilities for a purchase price of $10.7 billion. 
Our discontinued operations consist of our divested Enterprise Security assets and also includes results of our previously divested Veritas information management business (Veritas). There was no income from Veritas during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019. Revenue from Veritas was $4 million and $9 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018. Income from Veritas, net of taxes was $0 million and $5 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018.
We recorded a $665 million tax benefit in discontinued operations during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019 to remeasure the deferred tax assets associated with the tax basis of intellectual property held by our subsidiaries organized in Ireland. We previously expected to recover the tax basis through normal operation of our Enterprise business, which is taxed at the Irish trading rate of 12.5%. We now expect to recover the tax basis through the sale of certain assets of the Enterprise business, which will be taxed at the Irish capital gains tax rate of 33%.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019 was $427 million and $767 million, respectively. The amount of revenue recognized during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at June 29, 2018 and March 31, 2018 was $443 million and $766 million, respectively. 
We recognized amortization expense of capitalized contract acquisition costs of $1 million and $3 million during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019, respectively, and $1 million and $2 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively. There were no impairment losses recognized during the periods.
Remaining performance obligations represent contracted revenue that has not been recognized, which include contract liabilities and amounts that will be billed and recognized as revenue in future periods. As of October 4, 2019, we had $626 million of remaining performance obligations, which does not include customer deposit liabilities of $390 million, of which we expect to recognize approximately 96% as revenue over the next twelve months.
We lease certain of our facilities, equipment, and data center co-locations under operating leases that expire on various dates through fiscal 2029. Our leases generally have terms that range from 1 year to 17 years for our facilities, 1 year to 6 years for equipment, and 1 year to 6 years for data center co-locations. Some of our leases contain renewal options, escalation clauses, rent concessions, and leasehold improvement incentives.
Certain lease contracts include obligations to pay for other services, such as operations and maintenance. We elected the practical expedient whereby we record all lease components and the related minimum non-lease components as a single lease component. Cash payments made for variable lease costs are not included in the measurement of our operating lease assets and liabilities. Many of our lease terms include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease costs for minimum lease payments for operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Our lease agreements do not contain any residual value guarantees. 
Rent expense under operating leases was $18 million and $37 million for the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
See Note 7 for additional cash flow information related to our operating leases.
Goodwill and intangible assets to be disposed of as a result of our agreement with Broadcom to sell certain assets of Enterprise Security business were included in assets of discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, and accordingly, are excluded from the tables above.
Note 7. Supplementary Information (in millions)
For financial instruments measured at fair value, fair value is the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact, and we consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
discounted cash flows, are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated with observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.
Financial instruments not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis include our non-marketable equity investments, equity method investment and our long-term debt.
As of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments was $186 million and $184 million, respectively. 
Our investment in equity securities that is accounted for using the equity method is included in Other long-term assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and consists of our equity investment in DigiCert Parent Inc. (DigiCert) that had a carrying value of $11 million and $32 million at October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, respectively. 
We recorded a loss from equity interests of $11 million and $22 million during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019, respectively, and $34 million and $60 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, in Other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. This loss was reflected as a reduction in the carrying amount of our investment in equity interests in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the total fair value of our current and long-term fixed rate debt was $4,020 million and $3,964 million, respectively. The fair value of our variable rate debt approximated its carrying value. The fair values of all our debt obligations were based on Level 2 inputs.
On or after March 4, 2020, holders of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes have the option to require us to repurchase the notes, in cash, equal to the principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes. Therefore, as of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the principal amount and associated unamortized discount and issuance costs of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes were classified within Current portion of long-term debt in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Based on the closing price of our common stock of $23.48 on October 4, 2019, the if-converted value of our 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes exceeded the principal amount by approximately $200 million and the if-converted value of our 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes exceeded the principal amount by approximately $188 million.
We have an unsecured revolving credit facility to borrow up to $1.0 billion through May 10, 2021. Borrowings under the revolving facility bear interest at a floating rate of interest plus an applicable margin which is based on our senior unsecured credit agency rating. We are obligated to pay commitment fees on the daily amount of the unused commitment at a rate based 
on our debt ratings. As of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding under this revolving credit facility.
The Senior Term Loan A-5 agreement contains customary representations and warranties, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios. As of October 4, 2019, we were in compliance with all debt covenants.
We conduct business in numerous currencies throughout our worldwide operations, and our entities hold monetary assets or liabilities, earn revenues, or incur costs in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange gains or losses which impacts our operating results. As part of our foreign currency risk mitigation strategy, we have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts with up to twelve months in duration. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of the changes in foreign exchange rates.
To help protect the net investment in a foreign operation from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we conduct a program under which we may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the changes in the carrying amounts of these investments due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We exclude changes in forward points for the forward contracts from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. We recognize changes in the excluded component in other income (expense), net. As of October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, the fair value of these contracts was insignificant. During the six months ended October 4, 2019, a net gain of $2 million was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
The fair value of our foreign exchange forward contracts is presented on a gross basis in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. To mitigate losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties, we have entered into master netting arrangements with our counterparties that allow us to settle payments on a net basis. The effect of netting on our derivative assets and liabilities was not material as of October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018.
Our restructuring, transition and other costs consist primarily of severance, facilities, separation, transition and other related costs. Severance costs generally include severance payments, outplacement services, health insurance coverage, and legal costs. Included in other exit and disposal costs are advisory fees incurred in connection with restructuring events and facilities exit costs, which generally include rent expense and lease termination costs, less estimated sublease income. Separation costs primarily consist of consulting costs incurred in connection with the divestiture of our Enterprise Security business. Transition costs are incurred in connection with Board of Directors approved discrete strategic information technology transformation initiatives and primarily consist of consulting charges associated with our enterprise resource planning and supporting systems and costs to automate business processes. Such projects were completed by the end of fiscal 2019.
On August 6, 2019, our Board of Directors approved a fiscal 2020 restructuring plan (the Fiscal 2020 Plan) to improve productivity and reduce complexity in the way we manage the business. We expect to reduce net global headcount by approximately 7%. We also plan to downsize, vacate or close certain facilities and data centers in connection with the restructuring plan. We estimate that we will incur total costs in connection with the restructuring of approximately $100 million, 
approximately $75 million for severance and termination benefits and $25 million for site closures. These actions are expected to be completed in fiscal 2020. As of October 4, 2019, we have incurred costs of $49 million related to our Fiscal 2020 Plan. 
In August 2018, we announced a restructuring plan (the Fiscal 2019 Plan) under which we incurred costs of $48 million as of October 4, 2019. These actions were substantially completed in fiscal 2020. 
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements (the Fiscal 2017 Plan), under which we reduced headcount and closed certain facilities. These actions were completed in fiscal 2019 at a cumulative cost of $289 million related to our Fiscal 2017 Plan. 
Note 12. Income Taxes
permanent differences, and state taxes, partially offset by the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development tax credit.
On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court (Tax Court) issued its opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner and concluded that related parties in a cost sharing arrangement are not required to share expenses related to stock-based compensation. The Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service appealed the Tax Court decision to the Ninth Circuit. In June 2019, the Ninth Circuit reversed the July 2015 decision of the U.S. Tax Court. As a result of this decision, we recorded a cumulative income tax expense of $62 million in six months ended October 4, 2019. On July 22, 2019, the taxpayer requested a rehearing before the full Ninth Circuit and may subsequently appeal from the Ninth Circuit to the Supreme Court. As a result, the final outcome of the case is uncertain. If the Altera holding is reversed, we would anticipate recording an income tax benefit at that time.
During the six months ended October 4, 2019, we executed and settled repurchases of 25 million shares for $541 million in the open market at an average price of $21.85 per share. In addition, repurchases of 1 million shares executed during fiscal 2019 settled during the six months ended October 4, 2019. On August 6, 2019, our Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization to $1,600 million. As of October 4, 2019, we had $1,600 million remaining under the authorization to be completed in future periods with no expiration date.
Note 14. Employee Equity Incentive Plans
For certain employees, we settled fiscal 2019 bonuses in approximately 1 million RSUs. These awards were granted and vested in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. As of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the total liability associated with liability-classified awards was $6 million and $22 million, respectively, which is presented in Accrued compensation and benefits in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of October 4, 2019, the total unrecognized stock-based compensation costs related to our unvested stock-based awards was $446 million, which will be recognized over an estimated weighted-average amortization period of 1.9 years.
Note 15. Net Income Per Share
Basic income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potentially issuable common shares includes the dilutive effect of the shares underlying convertible debt and employee equity awards. Diluted loss per share was the same as basic loss per share for the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, as there was a loss from continuing operations in the period and inclusion of potentially issuable shares was anti-dilutive.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes. The conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018 as there was a loss from continuing operations in the period.
consolidated basis to evaluate company performance and to allocate resources. The change has been reflected in our segment reporting for all periods presented.
The Americas include U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan.
Revenues from customers inside the U.S. were $427 million and $883 million during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019, respectively, and $425 million and $842 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively. No other individual country accounted for more than 10% of revenues.
Most of our assets as of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019 were attributable to our U.S. operations. The table below represents cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held in the U.S. and internationally in various foreign subsidiaries.
The table below represents our property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, by geographic area, based on the physical location of the asset, at the end of each period presented.
No individual country represented more than 10% of the respective totals.
As of October 4, 2019, we had purchase obligations of $983 million associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services, including purchase obligations associated with our discontinued operations. The amount of purchase obligations reflects estimated future payments as of October 4, 2019 according to the contract terms.
As of October 4, 2019, we are required to pay a one-time transition tax of $703 million on untaxed foreign earnings of our foreign subsidiaries due in installments through July 2025 as a result of the Act. 
In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries, and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us. In addition, our bylaws contain indemnification obligations to our directors, officers, employees, and agents, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers to give such directors and officers additional contractual assurances regarding the scope of the indemnification set forth in our bylaws and to provide additional procedural protections. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers. It is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements, and we have not accrued any material liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In connection with the sale of Veritas, we assigned several leases to Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries. As a condition to consenting to the assignments, certain lessors required us to agree to indemnify the lessor under the applicable lease with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries’ breach of payment obligations under the terms of the lease. As with our other indemnification obligations discussed above and in general, it is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. As with our other indemnification obligations, such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses, and to date, generally under our real estate obligations, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations under our leases and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors (the Audit Committee) completed its internal investigation (the Audit Committee Investigation) in September 2018. In connection with the Audit Committee Investigation, we voluntarily contacted the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in April 2018. The SEC 
commenced a formal investigation, and we continue to cooperate with that investigation. The outcome of such an investigation is difficult to predict. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal and other professional services in connection with the SEC investigation. At this stage, we are unable to assess whether any material loss or adverse effect is reasonably possible as a result of the SEC’s investigation or estimate the range of any potential loss.
Securities class action lawsuits, which have since been consolidated, were filed in May 2018 against us and certain of our former officers, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The lead plaintiff’s consolidated amended complaint alleged that, during a purported class period of May 11, 2017 to August 2, 2018, defendants made false and misleading statements in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a), and that certain individuals violated Section 20A, of the Securities Exchange Act. Defendants filed motions to dismiss, which the Court granted in an order dated June 14, 2019. Pursuant to that order, plaintiff filed a motion seeking leave to amend and a proposed first amended complaint on July 11, 2019. The Court granted the motion in part on October 2, 2019 and the first amended complaint was filed on October 11, 2019. The Court’s order dismissed certain claims and certain of our former officers. The Court ordered defendants to answer by November 7. No trial date has been set.
Purported shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed against us and certain of our former officers and current and former directors in the U.S. District Courts for the District of Delaware and the Northern District of California, Delaware Chancery Court, and Delaware Superior Court, arising generally out of the same facts and circumstances as alleged in the securities class action and alleging claims for breach of fiduciary duty and related claims; these lawsuits include an action brought derivatively on behalf of our 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The derivative actions are currently voluntarily stayed in light of the securities class action. No specific amount of damages has been alleged in these lawsuits. We have also received demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under Delaware law. 
At this stage, we are unable to assess whether any material loss or adverse effect is reasonably possible as a result of these lawsuits or estimate the range of any potential loss.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we were advised by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Civil Division and the Civil Division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia that the government is investigating our compliance with certain provisions of our U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Multiple Award Schedule Contract No. GS-35F-0240T effective January 24, 2007, including provisions relating to pricing, country of origin, accessibility, and the disclosure of commercial sales practices.
As reported on the GSA’s publicly-available database, our total sales under the GSA Schedule contract were approximately $222 million from the period beginning January 2007 and ending September 2012. We have fully cooperated with the government throughout its investigation, and in January 2014, representatives of the government indicated that their initial analysis of our actual damages exposure from direct government sales under the GSA schedule was approximately $145 million; since the initial meeting, the government’s analysis of our potential damages exposure relating to direct sales has increased. The government has also indicated they are going to pursue claims for certain sales to California, Florida, and New York as well as sales to the federal government through reseller GSA Schedule contracts, which could significantly increase our potential damages exposure.
In 2012, a sealed civil lawsuit was filed against us related to compliance with the GSA Schedule contract and contracts with California, Florida, and New York. On July 18, 2014, the Court-imposed seal expired, and the government intervened in the lawsuit. On September 16, 2014, the states of California and Florida intervened in the lawsuit, and the state of New York notified the Court that it would not intervene. On October 3, 2014, the DOJ filed an amended complaint, which did not state a specific damages amount. On October 17, 2014, California and Florida combined their claims with those of the DOJ and the relator on behalf of New York in an Omnibus Complaint, and a First Amended Omnibus Complaint was filed on October 8, 2015; the state claims also do not state specific damages amounts. On June 6, 2019, we filed a motion seeking summary judgment on all claims asserted by all plaintiffs, and the plaintiffs filed a motion for partial summary judgment on elements of liability on their claims. Both motions are currently pending before the court and Symantec is currently unable to forecast the likely outcome of these motions.
It is possible that the litigation could lead to claims or findings of violations of the False Claims Act and could be material to our results of operations and cash flows for any period. Resolution of False Claims Act investigations can ultimately result in the payment of somewhere between one and three times the actual damages proven by the government, plus civil penalties in some cases, depending upon a number of factors. Our current estimate of the low end of the range of the probable estimated loss from this matter is $25 million, which we have accrued. This amount contemplates estimated losses from both the investigation of compliance with the terms of the GSA Schedule contract as well as possible violations of the False Claims Act. There is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred in excess of our accrual for this matter, however, we are currently unable to determine the high end of the range of estimated losses resulting from this matter.
On August 29, 2019 the Ninth Circuit issued a mandate remanding a securities class action lawsuit, originally filed on July 22, 2015, against our subsidiary, LifeLock, as well as certain of LifeLock’s former officers (the “LifeLock Defendants”) for further proceedings in the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona. The Ninth Circuit had affirmed in part and reversed in part the August 21, 2017 decision of the District Court, which had dismissed the case with prejudice. The complaint in the remanded action alleges that, during a purported class period of July 30, 2014 to July 21, 2015, a period that predates LifeLock’s acquisition by us, the LifeLock Defendants made false and misleading statements in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act. The case is now back in the U.S. District Court for further proceedings.
We are involved in a number of other judicial and administrative proceedings that are incidental to our business. Although adverse decisions (or settlements) may occur in one or more of the cases, it is not possible to estimate the possible loss or losses from each of these cases. The final resolution of these lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
On October 16, 2019, Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. (Clearlake), a private investment firm, and TA Associates, an existing investor of DigiCert and a private equity firm, completed an investment in DigiCert. As a part of the transaction, Clearlake and TA became equal partners in DigiCert. As a result, we received $378 million in cash for our equity investment in DigiCert. We expect to make income tax payments of approximately $55 million as a result of the transaction. As a result of the transaction, we expect to recognize a gain of approximately $310 million to $320 million, net of taxes.
On November 4, 2019, we completed the sale of certain assets and the assumption of certain liabilities of our Enterprise Security business to Broadcom for a purchase price of $10.7 billion. In connection with the transaction, we expect to incur direct costs of $35 million to $40 million. We expect to pay $2.2 billion to $2.6 billion in U.S. and foreign income taxes as a result of the transaction. As a result of the transaction, we expect to recognize a gain of approximately $2 billion to $3 billion, net of taxes. We expect to distribute the net proceeds from the Broadcom sale to our stockholders through a special dividend in the fourth quarter of our 2020 fiscal year.
The credit agreement contains customary representations and warranties, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, affirmative and negative covenants, including a covenant that we maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of not more than 5.25 to 1.0, or 5.75 to 1.0 if we acquire assets or business in an aggregate amount greater than $250 million, and restrictions on subsidiary indebtedness, liens, stock repurchases, and dividends (with exceptions permitting our regular quarterly dividend).
On November 7, 2019, we announced a cash dividend of $0.125 per share of common stock to be paid in December 2019. All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all RSUs and PRUs as of the record date will be entitled to the dividend and dividend equivalents, respectively. Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
On November 5, 2019, in connection with the strategic decision to divest our enterprise business, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the November 2019 Plan). Actions under this plan will include the reduction of our workforce by approximately 3,100 employees, as well as asset impairments, contract terminations, facilities closures, and the sale of underutilized facilities. We estimate that we will incur total costs of $800 million in connection with the November 2019 Plan of 
which approximately $350 million are expected to consist of cash expenditures for severance and termination benefits. These actions are expected to be completed within the next twelve months.
Information with respect to this Item may be found under the heading “Litigation contingencies” in Note 17 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. The list is not exhaustive, and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock.
For the last several years, we have experienced transitions in our business with the integration of two major acquisitions, the completion of several smaller acquisitions, and the divestiture of two businesses, two of which comprised substantially whole operating segments. These transitions have involved significant turnover in management and other key personnel and changes in our strategic direction. Transitions of this type can be disruptive, result in the loss of focus and employee morale and make the execution of business strategies more difficult. We have made commitments to Broadcom to provide transition services and certain threat intelligence data as has historically been provided to the Enterprise Security business. We may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to such transitions and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. If we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business.
We are dependent upon Broadcom for certain engineering services, which are critical to our products and business.
Our endpoint security solution has historically relied upon certain threat analytics software engines and other software (the Engine-Related Services) that have been developed and provided by engineering teams that have transferred to Broadcom as part of the Broadcom sale. The technology, including source code, at issue is shared, and pursuant to the terms of the Broadcom sale, we retain rights to use, modify, enhance and create derivative works from such technology. Broadcom has committed to provide these Engine-Related Services under a transition services agreement in substantially to the same extent and in substantially the same manner that have been historically provided. As a result, we are dependent on Broadcom for services and technology that are critical to our business, and if Broadcom fails to deliver these Engine-Related Services it would result in significant business disruption, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.
We may not achieve the intended benefits of the Broadcom sale.
Additionally, in connection with the divestiture, our Board of Directors committed to returning the proceeds of the Broadcom sale to stockholders in the form of a capital return program, including a special dividend of $12 per share and the August 2019 increase of our existing share repurchase authorization from $500 million to $1.6 billion. The use of proceeds in this manner could impair our future financial growth. 
Any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business. 
On November 5, 2019, in connection with the strategic decision to divest our enterprise business, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the November 2019 Plan). Actions under this plan will include the reduction of our workforce by approximately 3,100 employees, as well as asset impairments, contract terminations, facilities closures, and the sale of underutilized facilities. We estimate that we will incur total costs of $800 million in connection with the November 2019 Plan of which approximately $350 million are expected to consist of cash expenditures for severance and termination benefits. These actions are expected to be completed within the next twelve months. This initiative could result in disruptions to our operations. Any cost-cutting measures could also negatively impact our business by delaying the introduction of new products or technologies, interrupting service of additional products, or impacting employee retention. In addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and streamlining initiatives will be as successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or streamlining of our operations. If our operating costs are higher than we expect if the expected proceeds from the sale of under-utilized assets do not meet expectations, or we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our results of operations will suffer.
If we are not able to retain and attract consumers for our consumer solutions, our financial performance will be impaired.
•The number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms, viruses, malware, ransomware, and other malicious threats) and cyber security incidents (e.g., large scale data breaches);
•Changes in tax laws, rules, and regulations.
Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly.
Our future success depends on our ability to effectively respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers, as well as competitive technological developments and industry changes, by developing or introducing new and enhanced solutions on a timely basis.
•Executing new product and service strategies.
Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical (including cyber-security experts), sales, marketing, finance, and other personnel. Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will and we generally do not have employment or non-compete agreements with our employees, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. Competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, and we may face new and unexpected difficulties in attracting, retaining, and motivating employees in connection with the planned relocation of our headquarters outside of the Silicon Valley. In connection with the Broadcom sale, we experienced employee attrition and related difficulties and these difficulties may continue or increase following its consummation. 
Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. From time to time, key personnel leave our company and the frequency and number of such departures has widely varied and have resulted in significant changes to our executive leadership team. For example, we recently announced that Rick Hill, our interim President and CEO is stepping down and will be succeeded by our CFO, Vincent Pilette, and that Samir Kapuria has been named President and Matt Brown has been named interim Chief Financial Officer. Although we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations. In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results.
and operating results. To compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored by our customers. If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and our financial results could be adversely affected.
Our competitors include software vendors that offer solutions that directly compete with our offerings. In addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our solutions, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our solutions bundled with the offerings of our strategic partners, such as computer hardware original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and internet service providers (ISPs). Our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our solutions with those of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors’ solutions than our own. In addition, software vendors who have bundled our solutions with theirs may choose to bundle their solutions with their own or other vendors’ solutions or may limit our access to standard interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop solutions for their platform. In the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our solutions to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results.
We face growing competition from other technology companies, as well as from companies in the identity threat protection space such as credit bureaus. Many of these competitors are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection software that competes at some levels with our offerings. Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our solutions.
Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently, may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. Further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels. We also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete.
While we continue to focus on managing our costs and expenses, we also continue to invest significantly in research and development activities, in both the short and long term, as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation in each of our business segments. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods. We recognize the costs associated with these research and development investments earlier than the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.
Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings.
Matters relating to or arising from our completed Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters, and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee completed its internal investigation in September 2018. In connection with the Audit Committee Investigation, we voluntarily contacted the SEC. The SEC commenced a formal investigation, and we continue to cooperate with that investigation. The outcome of such an investigation is difficult to predict. If the SEC commences legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order, and other equitable remedies. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.
We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business.
Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
Under Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors and officers with respect to past, current, and future investigations and litigation.
The scope of our indemnification obligations may be broader than the coverage available under our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available. Further, in the event the directors and officers are ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover any amounts we previously advanced to them.
We cannot provide any assurances that future indemnification claims, including the cost of fees, penalties or other expenses, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover such claims. Further, should a coverage dispute arise, we may also incur significant expenses in relation to litigating or attempting to resolve any such dispute. Accordingly, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully.
lower prices for our solutions, a reduction in the rate of adoption of our solutions by new customers, and a lower rate of current customers purchasing.
We currently serve our customers from hosting facilities, including third-party hosting facilities, located across the globe. Damage to, or failure of, any significant element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our solutions. Global climate change may result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as drought, wildfires, storms, sea-level rise, and flooding. Interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers. Our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our cloud offerings are unreliable.
Our solutions are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems and configurations, which could result in failures of our solutions to function as designed.
Because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new solutions or releases until after they are delivered to customers. In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our solutions after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors.
Despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks, and other intentional disruptions of our solutions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance and availability of our offerings and harm our reputation as a company. Similarly, experienced computer programmers or other sophisticated individuals or entities, including malicious hackers, state-sponsored organizations, and insider threats including actions by employees and third-party service providers, may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our systems and websites and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network. Such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication, and if successful could expose us and the affected parties, to risk of loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information or disruptions of our business operations. While we invest and devote significant resources to maintain and continually enhance and update our methods to detect and alert us to such breaches, attacks, and disruptions, these efforts may not be sufficient, even with rapid detection, to prevent the damage such a breach of our products, solutions, systems, and websites may cause.
We are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers. For example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities, and we do not control the operation of these facilities. These facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption, or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services.
Any errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems with our products and services could harm our reputation. For example, we may experience disruptions, outages, and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our websites simultaneously, fraud, or security attacks. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. Interruptions in our products and services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network, could impact our revenues or cause customers to cease doing business with us. In addition, our business would be harmed if any of the events of this nature caused our customers and potential customers to believe our services are unreliable. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. We could potentially lose customer data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario.
We collect, use, disclose, store, or otherwise process personal information, which subjects us to privacy and data security laws and contractual commitments, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws and commitments could harm our business.
We collect, use, store or disclose (collectively, process) an increasingly large amount of personal information, including from employees and customers, in connection with the operation of our business, particularly in relation to our identity and information protection offerings. We process an increasingly high volume, variety, and velocity of personal information as a result of our identity and information protection offerings that rely on large data repositories of personal information and consumer transactions. The personal information we process is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local, and foreign laws regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business.
Additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions. For example, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation imposes more stringent data protection requirements and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of €20 million or four percent of worldwide annual revenues.
Data protection legislation is also becoming increasingly common in the U.S. at both the federal and state level. For example, in June 2018, the State of California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (the CCPA), which will come into effect on January 1, 2020. The CCPA requires companies that process information on California residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use, and sharing practices, allows consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties, and provides a new cause of action for data breaches. However, California legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the CCPA, and it remains unclear what, if any, modifications will be made to the CCPA or how it will be interpreted. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of data. The burdens imposed by the CCPA and other similar laws that may be enacted at the federal and state level may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial expenditures in order to comply.
Global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We may be or become subject to data localization laws mandating that data collected in a foreign country be processed and stored only within that country. If any country in which we have customers were to adopt a data localization law, we could be required to expand our data storage facilities there or build new ones in order to comply. The expenditure this would require, as well as costs of compliance generally, could harm our financial condition.
Additionally, third parties with whom we work, such as vendors or developers, may violate applicable laws or our policies and such violations can place personal information of our customers at risk. In addition, our customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access. This could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. In addition, such third parties could be the target of cyberattack and other data breaches which could impact our systems or our customers’ records.
•Substantial accounting charges for acquisition-related costs, amortization of intangible assets, and higher levels of stock-based compensation expense.
We have invested and continue to invest and devote significant resources in the integration of businesses we acquire. The success of each acquisition depends in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies or synergies and growth prospects from integrating these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects. To integrate acquired businesses, we must integrate and manage the personnel and business systems of the acquired operations. We also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests and we may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. Moreover, to be successful, large complex acquisitions depend on large-scale product, technology, and sales force integrations that are difficult to complete on a timely basis or at all and may be more susceptible to the special risks and challenges described above.
We sell our solutions to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks.
•Any consolidation of electronics retailers can continue to increase their negotiating power with respect to software providers such as us.
•Most of our OEM partners are not subject to minimum sales requirements. Generally, our OEM partners do not have any obligation to market our products to their customers;
•Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own solutions and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales.
Our solutions are subject to a high degree of regulation, including a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTC Act), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the FTC Act. Moreover, LifeLock entered into consent decrees and similar arrangements with the FTC and 35 states’ attorneys general in 2010 and a settlement with the FTC in 2015 relating to allegations that certain of LifeLock’s advertising and marketing practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the FTC Act, which impose additional restrictions on the LifeLock business, including prohibitions against making any misrepresentation of “the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of” LifeLock’s identity theft protection services. Any of the laws and regulations that apply to our business are subject to revision or new or changed interpretations, and we cannot predict the impact of such changes on our business.
Additionally, the nature of our identity and information protection products subjects us to the broad regulatory, supervisory, and enforcement powers of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau which may exercise authority with respect to our services, or the marketing and servicing of those services, by overseeing our financial institution or credit reporting agency customers and suppliers, or by otherwise exercising its supervisory, regulatory, or enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services.
Changes to our effective tax rate could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss).
•Taxes arising in connection with the Broadcom sale.
Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs, and access to capital markets.
Our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies, and such agencies have in the past and could in the future downgrade our ratings. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, and access to capital markets. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
In addition, we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, which are generally not guarantors of our debt. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent in part on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment, or otherwise. In general, our subsidiaries will not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make the required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.
Changes in the method of determining LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect interest rates on our current or future indebtedness and may otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Certain of our indebtedness is made at variable interest rates that use the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR (or metrics derived from or related to LIBOR), as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. These reforms may cause LIBOR to cease to exist, new methods of calculating LIBOR to be established, or alternative reference rates to be established. The potential consequences cannot be fully predicted and could have an adverse impact on the market value for or value of LIBOR-linked securities, loans, and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us. Changes in market interest rates may influence our financing costs, returns on financial investments and the valuation of derivative contracts and could reduce our earnings and cash flows. In addition, any transition process may involve, among other things, increased volatility or illiquidity in markets for instruments that rely on LIBOR, reductions in the value of certain instruments or the effectiveness of related transactions such as hedges, increased borrowing costs, uncertainty under applicable documentation, or difficult and costly consent processes. This could materially and adversely effect our results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. We cannot predict the effect of the potential changes to LIBOR or the establishment and use of alternative rates or benchmarks.
Our existing credit agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us.
•Consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets.
All of these covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet or otherwise address our capital needs, pursue business opportunities, react to market conditions, or otherwise restrict activities or business plans. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and, to the extent such indebtedness is secured in the future, proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness.
Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open source” licenses, which may include, by way of example, the GNU General Public License, GNU Lesser General Public License, the Mozilla Public License, the BSD License, and the Apache License.
Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. We have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. In addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business.
