The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
We are a global leader in cyber security and provide cyber security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals worldwide.
Our Enterprise Security portfolio includes a deep and broad mix of products, services and solutions, delivered as part of an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform, which unifies cloud and on-premises security to provide advanced threat protection and information protection across all endpoints, networks, email, and cloud applications.
Our Cyber Safety Solutions (delivered through our Norton and LifeLock offerings) help consumers protect their information, identities, devices and networks at home and online.
•Operating income increased primarily due to decreases in stock-based compensation expense and outside services compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, partially offset by the absence of operating income from our divested WSS and PKI solutions in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.
We evaluate our estimates on a regular basis and make changes accordingly.
Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting amounts are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates.
There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, except for changes as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.
We recognize revenue primarily pursuant to the requirements under the authoritative guidance on contracts with customers.
Revenue recognition requirements are very complex and require us to make estimates and assumptions.
We enter into arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which may include hardware, software licenses, cloud services, support and maintenance, and professional services.
We allocate revenue to each performance obligation on a relative fair value basis based on management’s estimate of stand-alone selling price (“SSP”).
Judgments are required to determine the SSP for each performance obligation.
Changes to the performance obligations in an arrangement, the judgments required to estimate the SSP for the respective performance obligations, and increasing variability in contractual arrangements could materially impact the amount and timing of revenue recognition.
Net revenues decreased $19 million primarily due to a $90 million decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Security segment as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, offset by an increase of $71 million in revenue from our Consumer Digital Safety segment due to increased revenue from identity and information protection solutions.
The Americas include U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; and APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan.
Sales and marketing expense decreased $47 million primarily due to decreases of approximately $20 million related to our divested WSS and PKI solutions and $12 million in stock-based compensation expense.
Research and development expense was relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
General and administrative expense decreased $16 million primarily due to a $19 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense.
See Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about charges related to our restructuring plan.
Non-operating expense, net, decreased by $19 million primarily due to a $32 million decrease in interest expense during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 as a result of lower outstanding borrowings due to repayments during fiscal 2018, partially offset by a $26 million loss during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from our equity method investment received in connection with the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, we recorded an income tax expense of $0 million and $41 million, respectively, on discontinued operations.
See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the provisional impact from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and is therefore difficult to predict.
We do not allocate to our operating segments certain operating expenses that we manage separately at the corporate level and are not used in evaluating the results of, or in allocating resources to, our segments.
See Note 14 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Revenue decreased $90 million, primarily due to a $103 million decrease in revenue as a result of our fiscal 2018 divestiture of the WSS and PKI solutions.
Operating income decreased $38 million primarily due to our October 2017 divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions which contributed $59 million to operating income in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Revenue increased $71 million due to a $73 million increase in revenue from sales of our identity and information protection solutions attributable to increased customer count and increased revenue per customer.
Operating income increased $33 million, primarily due to increased revenue, partially offset by increased allocated corporate costs of $27 million and increased cost of revenue of $18 million.
We have historically relied on cash generated from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt, and proceeds from divestitures for our liquidity needs.
As of June 29, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.3 billion, of which $698 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed with the objective to preserve principal, maintain liquidity, and generate investment returns.
We also have an undrawn credit facility of $1.0 billion which expires in May 2021.
Our principal cash requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support on-going business activities, including the payment of taxes, fund capital expenditures, service existing debt, and invest in business acquisitions.
As a part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet, we may from time to time make optional repayments of our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding debt, depending on various factors such as market conditions.
Historically this has included a quarterly cash dividend, the repayment of debt and the repurchase of our common stock.
Our cash flows from operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $331 million, compared to $213 million in the corresponding period in the prior year.
Our cash flows for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 reflected a net loss of $60 million adjusted by non-cash amortization and depreciation of $152 million, stock-based compensation of $113 million and a deferred tax benefit of $42 million.
Our cash flows in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected a net loss of $133 million, adjusted by non-cash amortization and depreciation of $165 million, stock-based compensation of $147 million and a deferred tax benefit of $62 million.
Accounts receivable decreased $321 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to the combination of higher collections and lower billings in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
Our investing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 included cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $64 million, partially offset by capital expenditures of $44 million, while our investing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily consisted of capital expenditures of $47 million.
Our financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily consisted of payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $60 million and tax withholding payments related to RSUs of $42 million, compared to $66 million and $61 million, respectively, in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
In addition, we repaid debt of $2.0 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Debt.
As of June 29, 2018, our total outstanding principal amount of indebtedness was $5.1 billion, summarized as follows.
The Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5 and our revolving credit facility contain customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and restrictions on subsidiary indebtedness, liens, stock repurchases and dividends (with exceptions permitting our regular quarterly dividend).
Our Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 also require us to file periodic reports with the SEC by specified deadlines.
As of June 29, 2018, we had not met the requirements in the Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5, the revolving credit facility agreement, the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 to deliver audited financial statements for our fiscal year ended March 30, 2018 and file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for such period with the SEC.
In addition, we subsequently did not meet the requirements under the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for our fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2018 with the SEC by the specified deadline.
On October 26, 2018 we satisfied these requirements for our fiscal year ended March 30, 2018 by filing our Form 10-K for such period with the SEC.
However, we have not yet met our SEC reporting requirements under these notes for our quarterly period ended September 28, 2018.
Furthermore, according to the Convertible Senior Note agreements, we have the option to remedy an event of default by paying additional interest for up to 360 days after the passage of the grace period.
As of the date of this filing, no notice has been received from noteholders.
Because we expected as of June 29, 2018 that we will comply with all of our debt covenants before the applicable grace periods have passed and waivers have expired, we have classified all of the associated outstanding debt as long-term debt in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Dividends.
On August 2, 2018, we announced a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid in September 2018.
On November 1, 2018, we announced a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid in December 2018.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
Stock repurchases.
Under our stock repurchase program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through open market and through accelerated stock repurchase transactions.
As of June 29, 2018, the remaining balance of our stock repurchase authorization was $800 million and does not have an expiration date.
As of June 29, 2018, the minimum future rentals on our non-cancelable operating leases totaled $252 million.
As of June 29, 2018, we had purchase obligations of $619 million associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services, including agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.
The amounts also include agreements to purchase goods or services that have cancellation provisions requiring little or no payment because management believes that cancellation of these contracts is unlikely and we expect to make future cash payments according to the contract terms or in similar amounts for similar materials.
The above purchase obligations do not include future minimum contractual obligations related to a five-year purchase agreement with a service provider for a total contract value of $500 million that we entered into in September 2018.
On August 2, 2018, we announced a restructuring plan under which we will initiate targeted reductions of our global workforce of up to approximately 8%.
We estimate that we will incur total costs in connection with the restructuring plan of approximately $50 million, primarily for severance and termination benefits.
These actions are expected to be completed in fiscal 2019.
See Note 15 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our indemnifications.
†This exhibit is being furnished rather than filed, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing, in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
