The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act).
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
NortonLifeLock Inc. is a global leader in consumer cyber safety.
Our Norton LifeLock branded solutions help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identity, and home networks.
On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement with Broadcom Inc. (Broadcom) under which Broadcom agreed to purchase certain of our Enterprise Security assets and assume certain liabilities for a purchase price of $10.7 billion (the Broadcom sale).
On November 4, 2019, we completed the transaction.
Starting in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we operate in one reportable segment.
The Enterprise Security business was part of our Enterprise Security Segment.
Revenues and associated costs of our ID Analytics solutions, which were formerly included in the Enterprise Security segment, are now included in our remaining reportable segment.
In connection with the Broadcom sale, effective November 4, 2019, we changed our corporate name from Symantec Corporation to NortonLifeLock Inc.
•Net revenues were relatively flat.
•Operating income increased $60 million primarily due to lower restructuring, transition and other expense, partially offset by higher advertisement and promotion costs.
•Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of taxes, increased $97 million primarily due to lower operating expenses.
•Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, increased $696 million primarily due to higher income tax benefits.
•Net income and net income per share increased primarily due to higher income from both our continuing operations and discontinued operations, net of taxes.
•Operating income increased $223 million primarily due to revenue recognized in the additional week in the first six months of fiscal 2020, lower restructuring, transition and other expense, and lower stock-based compensation expense.
•Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of taxes, increased $204 million primarily due to the higher operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.
•Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, increased $675 million primarily due to higher income tax benefits.
•Net income and net income per share increased primarily due to higher income from both our continuing operations and discontinued operations, net of taxes.
We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.
We evaluate our estimates on a regular basis and make changes accordingly.
Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting amounts are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates.
There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the six months ended October 4, 2019, except for those related to discontinued operations as a result of changes in reporting that relate to the Broadcom sale.
Discontinued Operations.
The review consists of evaluating whether the business meets the definition of a component for which the operations and cash flows are clearly distinguishable from the other components of the business, and if so, whether it is anticipated that after the disposal the cash flows of the component would be eliminated from continuing operations and whether the disposition represents a strategic shift that has a major effect on operations and financial results.
In addition, we evaluate whether the business has met the criteria as a business held for sale.
In order for a planned disposition to be classified as a business held for sale, the established criteria must be met as of the reporting date, including an active program to market the business and the expected disposition of the business within one year.
Additionally, the results of operations of a discontinued operation are reclassified to income from discontinued operations, net of tax, for all periods presented.
Results of discontinued operations include all revenues and expenses directly derived from such businesses; general corporate overhead is not allocated to discontinued operations.
See Note 3 - Discontinued Operations in our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial statements for the carrying value of discontinued operations held for sale assets and liabilities and additional information.
Percentages may not add due to rounding.
Our metrics may be calculated in a manner different than similar metrics used by other companies.
 We define direct customer revenues as revenues from sales of our consumer solutions to direct customers, which we define as those customers who have a direct billing relationship with us.
Such customer sources include online acquisition and retention, affiliates, co-marketing, and original contract manufacturer channels.
Direct customers exclude customers of our partners and ID Analytics solutions and direct customer revenues excludes partner revenues and ID Analytics revenues.
For the three months ended October 4, 2019 partner revenues and ID Analytics revenues were $59 million and $13 million, respectively.
For the three months ended September 28, 2018 partner revenues and ID Analytics revenues were $58 million and $11 million, respectively.
Average direct customer count presents the average of the total number of direct customers at the beginning and end of the fiscal quarter.
ARPU is calculated as estimated direct customer revenues for the period divided by the average direct customer count for the same period, expressed as a monthly figure.
Net revenues were relatively flat, as our average direct customer count decline was partially offset by an increase in our ARPU.
Net revenues increased $34 million compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2019 primarily due to approximately $44 million of revenue from the additional week in the first six months of fiscal 2020.
Our cost of revenues decreased $16 million primarily due to inventory write-offs of $10 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 which did not recur in fiscal 2020 and an $8 million decrease in technical support costs in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year.
Sales and marketing expense increased $14 million primarily due to a $30 million increase in advertising and promotional expense, partially offset by $5 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense.
Research and development expense decreased $19 million primarily due to an $8 million decrease in outside services and a $7 million decrease in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation expense.
General and administrative expense decreased $9 million primarily due to a $14 million decrease in outside services.
Restructuring, transition and other costs decreased $35 million primarily due to a $51 million decrease in transition related projects costs, partially offset by a $17 million increase in severance costs.
Sales and marketing expense increased $1 million primarily due to a $9 million increase advertising and promotional expense, partially offset by a $9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense.
Research and development expense decreased $26 million primarily due to a $10 million decrease in outside services and a $7 million decrease in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation.
General and administrative expense decreased $32 million primarily due to a $21 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense and a $15 million decrease in outside services, partially offset by a $11 million increase in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation.
Restructuring, transition and other costs decreased $107 million primarily due to a $119 million decrease in transition related projects costs, partially offset by a $23 million increase in severance costs.
Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and is therefore difficult to predict.
Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes increased $696 million primarily as a result of a $665 million tax benefit in discontinued operations during the second quarter of fiscal 2020 to remeasure the deferred tax assets associated with the tax basis of intellectual property held by our subsidiaries organized in Ireland.
We previously expected to recover the tax basis through normal operation of our Enterprise business, which is taxed at the Irish trading rate of 12.5%.
The impact of the tax benefit was partially offset by a $36 million increase in restructuring, transition and other costs.
Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes increased $675 million primarily due to a $633 million increase in income tax benefit as a result of the $665 tax benefit discussed above and a $57 million increase in net revenues, partially offset by a $37 million increase in restructuring, transition and other costs.
We have historically relied on cash generated from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt, and proceeds from divestitures for our liquidity needs.
As of October 4, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $1.8 billion, of which $0.4 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed with the objective to preserve principal, maintain liquidity, and generate investment returns.
We also have an undrawn credit facility of $1.0 billion under a new financing arrangement discussed below which expires in October 2024.
Our principal cash requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support on-going business activities, including the payment of taxes, fund capital expenditures, payments of cash dividends, service existing debt, and invest in business acquisitions.
As a part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet, we may from time to time make optional repayments of our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding debt, depending on various factors such as market conditions.
Historically this has included a quarterly cash dividend, the repayment of debt and the repurchase of our common stock.
On October 16, 2019, Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. (Clearlake), a private investment firm, and TA Associates, an existing investor of DigiCert and a private equity firm, completed an investment in DigiCert.
As a result, we received $378 million in cash for our equity investment in DigiCert.
In connection with the transaction, we expect to incur direct costs of approximately $35 million to $40 million.
We expect to distribute the net proceeds from the Broadcom sale to our stockholders through a special dividend in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2020.
See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional cash flow information associated with our discontinued operations.
Our cash flows for the first six months of fiscal 2020 reflected net income of $811 million, adjusted by non-cash items, including a deferred income tax benefit of $707 million, amortization and depreciation of $251 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $150 million, compared to a net loss of $68 million adjusted by non-cash items, including amortization and depreciation of $305 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $210 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019.
Accounts receivable decreased $111 million, compared to $286 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019, primarily due to seasonally higher collections than billings during the period.
Contract liabilities decreased $129 million, compared to $116 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019, primarily due to seasonally higher recognized revenue than billings during the period.
Our investing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2020 consisted primarily of cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $120 million partially offset by capital expenditures of $76 million, while our investing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of capital expenditures of $95 million, partially offset by cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $99 million.
Our financing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2020 included common stock repurchases of $559 million, payments of dividends and dividend equivalents of $98 million and tax withholding payments related to restricted stock units (RSUs) of $65 million, partially offset by net proceeds from sales of common stock under employee stock incentive plans of $68 million.
Our financing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2019 included payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $110 million and tax withholding payments related to RSUs of $53 million.
Our financing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2020 included purchases of property and equipment related to discontinued operations of $29 million, compared to $16 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019.
The Senior Term Loan A-5 agreement contains customary representations and warranties, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios.
As of October 4, 2019, we were in compliance with all debt covenants.
Interest on borrowings under the credit agreement can be based on a base rate or a London interbank offered rate at our election, in each case plus a margin that varies based on our ratio of debt to adjusted EBITDA and debt ratings.
The principal amount of the term loan is repayable in quarterly installments on the last business day of each calendar quarter commencing with the quarter ended March 31, 2021 in an amount equal to 1.25% of the aggregate principal amount of the term loan and in the outstanding principal amount upon the October 2024 maturity date.
In connection with the credit agreement, on November 4, 2019, we fully prepaid the principal amount of $500 million of our Senior Term Loan A-5 and terminated our existing revolving line of credit.
In our second quarter of fiscal 2021, we plan to borrow under the delayed draw term loan of $750 million, which will mature in October 2024 and to use the proceeds to repay our 4.2% Senior Notes, which are due in September 2020.
Dividends.
On November 7, 2019, we announced a cash dividend of $0.125 per share of common stock to be paid in December 2019.
All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all RSUs and performance-based restricted stock units as of the record date will be entitled to the dividends and dividend equivalents, respectively.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
Stock repurchases.
Under our stock repurchase program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through accelerated stock repurchase transactions, open market transactions (including through trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act) and privately-negotiated transactions.
As of October 4, 2019, the remaining balance of our stock repurchase authorization was $1.6 billion and does not have an expiration date.
On November 5, 2019, in connection with the strategic decision to divest our enterprise business, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the November 2019 Plan).
Actions under this plan will include the reduction of our workforce by approximately 3,100 employees, as well as asset impairments, contract terminations, facilities closures, and the sale of underutilized facilities.
We expect these costs to be partially offset by proceeds from the sale of real estate and other assets, in addition to the $378 million of proceeds from the sale of our equity investment discussed above.
These actions are expected to be completed within the next twelve months.
The following is a schedule of our significant contractual obligations as of October 4, 2019, including those associated with our discontinued operations.
The expected timing of payments of the obligations in the following table is estimated based on current information.
the respective taxing authorities.
Therefore, $431 million in long-term income taxes payable has been excluded from the contractual obligations table.
See Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Our Board of Directors has rescheduled our 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or the 2019 Annual Meeting, to December 19, 2019 from the date disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the annual period ended March 29, 2019.
The record date, time and location of the 2019 Annual Meeting will be as set forth in our proxy statement for the 2019 Annual Meeting.
Stockholders are advised that the deadlines set forth under the captions “Stockholder Proposals for Nominees” and “Stockholder Proposals to be Presented at the Next Annual Meeting” in the Company’s proxy statement for its 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 29, 2018, continue to apply since the date of the 2019 Annual Meeting does not vary by more than 30 calendar days from the anniversary of the 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
On November 5, 2019, in connection with the strategic decision to divest our enterprise business, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the November 2019 Plan).
Actions under this plan will include the reduction of our workforce by approximately 3,100 employees, as well as asset impairments, contract terminations, facilities closures, and the sale of underutilized facilities.
These actions are expected to be completed within the next twelve months.
†This exhibit is being furnished rather than filed, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing, in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
