Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

 In addition to its activities in the United States, 9.2% of the Company sales during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were generated by its subsidiaries in Canada and Europe.
We are subject to general risks attendant to the conduct of business in Canada and Europe, including economic uncertainties and foreign government regulations.
In addition, the Company’s international business is subject to changes in demand or pricing resulting from fluctuations in currency exchange rates or other factors.
See “Item 2 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Foreign Exchange.”  

 The Company’s cash balance is invested in short-term savings accounts with our primary banks, Citibank and JPMorgan Chase Bank.
As such, we believe that the risk of significant changes in the value of our cash invested is minimal.
Table of Contents  

 Item 4.
Controls and Procedures  

 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.
As required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Exchange Act, our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures”, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this report.
This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of various members of our management, including our Company’s Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal executive and financial officer) and Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (principal accounting officer).
Based upon that evaluation, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective, as of the end of the period covered by this report, to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by Rule 13a-15(d) under the Exchange Act, that occurred during the three months ended September 30, 2019, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
- Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

 The table below sets forth the repurchase of Common Stock by the Company and its affiliated purchasers during the   

 third quarter of 2019.
ISSUER PURCHASE OF EQUITY SECURITIES  


   (1)    Includes 1,862 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.
These shares are not included in the Common Stock repurchase program referred to in footnote (4) below.
On February 2, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans.
The Company expects to purchase 


 Table of Contents  

shares of its Common Stock from time to time in the market or otherwise subject to market conditions.
The Common Stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
Item 6.
Exhibits  



 Table of Contents  

 SIGNATURES  

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
