Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
This report and other documents we have filed with the SEC contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
Words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “continue,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “potential,” “predicts,” “seek,” “should,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions or variations or negatives of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this report.
Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.
Although forward-looking statements in this report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us.
Consequently, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially and adversely from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements.
A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those in the forward-looking statements.
We urge you to consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the 2017 10-K, under the heading “Risk Factors” and in the other documents we have filed with the SEC in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We have no plans, and undertake no obligation, to revise or update our forward-looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

THREE AND SIX MONTHS ENDED MARCH 30, 2018, AND MARCH 31, 2017



OVERVIEW

We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
GENERAL


•Net revenue increased by 11% to $1,965 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
This increase in revenue was primarily driven by our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve, the increasing number of applications for the Internet of Things, and our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, industrial, medical and military.
•Our ending cash and cash equivalents balance increased approximately 16% to $1,881 million as of March 30, 2018, from $1,617 million as of September 29, 2017.
This increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily the result of cash generated from operations of $795 million, partially offset by the repurchase of 2.7 million shares of common stock for $284 million, dividend payments of $118 million, and capital expenditures of $119 million during the six months ended March 30, 2018.
NET REVENUE


We market and sell our products directly to original equipment manufacturers of communications and electronics products, third-party original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components distributors.
We generally experience seasonal peaks during the second half of the calendar year, primarily as a result of increased worldwide production of consumer electronics in anticipation of increased holiday sales, whereas our second fiscal quarter is typically lower and in line with seasonal industry trends.
We generated net revenue of $913.4 million for the three months ended March 30, 2018, an increase of $61.7 million or 7.2%, as compared with $851.7 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
Net revenue increased by 11.3% or $199.3 million to $1,965.3 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with $1,766.0 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
This increase in net revenue for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, is primarily related to an increase in demand for our components from a key smartphone customer as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, offset by decreases in average selling prices.
GROSS PROFIT


Gross profit represents net revenue less cost of goods sold.
Our cost of goods sold consists primarily of purchased materials, labor and overhead (including depreciation and share-based compensation expense) associated with product manufacturing.
Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical of the semiconductor industry.
As part of our normal course of business, we mitigate the gross margin impact of declining average selling prices with efforts to increase unit volumes, reduce material costs, improve manufacturing efficiencies, lower manufacturing costs of existing products and by introducing new and higher value-added products.
The $33.3 million increase in gross profit for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of favorable product mix, lower per-unit materials and manufacturing costs and higher unit volumes that positively impacted gross profit by $72.5 million.
These positive impacts were partially offset by lower average selling prices with a gross profit impact of $39.2 million.
Gross profit margin increased to 50.2% of net revenue for the three months ended 

March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, due to the overall increase in revenue and the aforementioned factors.
The $106.2 million increase in gross profit for the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of favorable product mix, lower per-unit materials and manufacturing costs and higher unit volumes that positively impacted gross profit by $186.1 million.
These positive impacts were partially offset by lower average selling prices with a gross profit impact of $79.8 million.
Gross profit margin increased to 50.7% of net revenue for the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, due to the overall increase in revenue and the aforementioned factors.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT


Research and development expenses consist primarily of direct personnel costs including share-based compensation expense, costs for pre-production evaluation and testing of new devices, masks, engineering prototypes and design tool costs.
The increase in research and development expenses for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development–related expenses.
Research and development expense increased as a percentage of net revenue when compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017 as a result of our increased investment in developing new product capabilities.
SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE


Selling, general and administrative expenses include legal and related costs, accounting, treasury, human resources, information systems, customer service, bad debt expense, sales commissions, share-based compensation expense, advertising, marketing, and costs associated with business combinations completed or contemplated during the period and other costs.
The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee compensation, including share-based compensation.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 30, 2018, increased as a percentage of net revenue due to the aforementioned increase in selling, general and administrative expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the six months ended March 30, 2018, remained consistent as a percentage of net revenue when compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017.
AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES


The decrease in amortization expense for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, was primarily due to the end of the useful lives of certain intangible assets that were acquired in prior fiscal years.
RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES 


Restructuring and other charges for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, are related to an adjustment to previously announced restructuring plans.
We do not anticipate any further significant charges associated with these restructuring activities.
Substantially all of the cash payments related to these restructuring plans are expected to occur during the current fiscal year.
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES 


We recorded a provision for income taxes of $16.3 million (which consisted of $7.8 million and $8.5 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) and $331.5 million (which consisted of $312.7 million and $18.8 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, was 5.6% and 48.9%, respectively, as compared with 20.1% and 19.9% for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, respectively.
The difference between our effective tax rate for the six months ended March 30, 2018, of 48.9% and the federal statutory rate of 24.6% resulted primarily from a one-time charge of $240.9 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities related to tax reform, and an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, and a benefit of $22.5 million related to windfall stock deductions.
See Note 6 for a detailed discussion over the impact of the new U.S. tax legislation, including an adjustment made in the three months ended March 30, 2018, to our provisional estimate related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income for the period adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain operating assets and liabilities.
During the six months ended March 30, 2018, we generated $795.0 million of cash from operating activities, an increase of $70.4 million as compared with the $724.6 million generated during the six months ended March 31, 2017.
The increase in cash from operating activities during the six months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily related to an increase in net income, exclusive of the unpaid portion of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings.
Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of cash paid for acquisitions net of cash acquired, capital expenditures, cash received from the sale of capital assets, and cash related to the sale or maturity of investments.
Cash used in investing activities was $124.5 million during the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with $115.5 million during the six months ended March 31, 2017.
The cash used for capital expenditures was $118.5 million in the six months ended March 30, 2018, primarily related to the purchase of manufacturing equipment to support the expansion of our assembly and test operations, filter production operations, and wafer fabrication facilities.
During the six months ended March 30, 2018, we also paid $6.0 million related to purchased intangibles.
•$284.2 million related to our repurchase of 2.7 million shares of our common stock pursuant to the stock repurchase programs approved by our Board of Directors on January 31, 2018, and January 19, 2017; 

•$117.5 million related to the payment of cash dividends on our common stock; and

•$46.5 million related to the minimum statutory payroll tax withholdings payments on the vesting of employee performance and restricted stock awards.
These uses of cash were partially offset by the net proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $32.3 million during the six months ended March 30, 2018.
Cash and cash equivalent balances were $1,881.3 million as of March 30, 2018, representing an increase of $264.5 million from September 29, 2017.
The increase resulted from $795.0 million in cash generated from operations which was partially offset by $284.2 million used to repurchase 2.7 million shares of stock, $117.5 million in cash dividend payments, $46.5 million used to repurchase shares related to payroll tax withholdings on equity awards, and $118.5 million in capital expenditures.
Based on our historical results of operations, we expect that our cash and cash equivalents on hand and the cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, working capital, quarterly cash dividend payments (if such dividends are declared by the Board of Directors), outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with existing operations for at least the next 12 months.
However, we cannot be certain that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be available in the future to fund all of our capital and operating requirements.
In addition, any future strategic investments and acquisitions may require additional cash and capital resources.
If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash or capital to meet our needs on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Our invested cash balances primarily consist of highly liquid term deposits and money market funds where the underlying securities primarily consist of United States treasury obligations, United States agency obligations and repurchase agreements collateralized by United States government and agency obligations.
The Company had $1,881.3 million of total cash and cash equivalents as of March 30, 2018, including $561.9 million held overseas.
As a result of the deemed repatriation of the historical earnings and the impact of GILTI on future earnings, the Company no longer takes the position that foreign earnings in certain jurisdictions are permanently reinvested.
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

Our contractual obligations disclosure in the 2017 10-K has not materially changed since we filed that report, except for the $241.0 million deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, which is payable over the next eight years, $19.3 million per year for each of the next five years, followed by payments of $36.1 million, $48.2 million, and $60.2 million in years six through eight, respectively.
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in SEC Regulation S-K Item- 303(a)(4)(ii).
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement.
The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in 

certain competition with the third party.
Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020.
The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act.
The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
