This report and other documents we have filed with the SEC contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
Words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “continue,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “potential,” “predicts,” “seek,” “should,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions or variations or negatives of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this report.
Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.
Although forward-looking statements in this report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us.
Consequently, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially and adversely from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements.
A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those in the forward-looking statements.
We urge you to consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the 2017 10-K, under the heading “Risk Factors” and in the other documents we have filed with the SEC in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
We have no plans, and undertake no obligation, to revise or update our forward-looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

THREE AND SIX MONTHS ENDED MARCH 30, 2018, AND MARCH 31, 2017



OVERVIEW

We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
GENERAL


•Net revenue increased by 11% to $1,965 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
This increase in revenue was primarily driven by our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve, the increasing number of applications for the Internet of Things, and our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, industrial, medical and military.
•Our ending cash and cash equivalents balance increased approximately 16% to $1,881 million as of March 30, 2018, from $1,617 million as of September 29, 2017.
This increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily the result of cash generated from operations of $795 million, partially offset by the repurchase of 2.7 million shares of common stock for $284 million, dividend payments of $118 million, and capital expenditures of $119 million during the six months ended March 30, 2018.
NET REVENUE


We market and sell our products directly to original equipment manufacturers of communications and electronics products, third-party original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components distributors.
We generally experience seasonal peaks during the second half of the calendar year, primarily as a result of increased worldwide production of consumer electronics in anticipation of increased holiday sales, whereas our second fiscal quarter is typically lower and in line with seasonal industry trends.
We generated net revenue of $913.4 million for the three months ended March 30, 2018, an increase of $61.7 million or 7.2%, as compared with $851.7 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
Net revenue increased by 11.3% or $199.3 million to $1,965.3 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with $1,766.0 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
This increase in net revenue for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, is primarily related to an increase in demand for our components from a key smartphone customer as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, offset by decreases in average selling prices.
