Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures

Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 29, 2017.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Based on management’s evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 29, 2017, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.
Changes in internal controls over financial reporting 

There are no changes to our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) that occurred during the period covered by this report that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings.
From time to time, various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be, instituted or asserted against the Company, including those pertaining to patent infringement, intellectual property, environmental hazards, product liability and warranty, safety and health, employment and contractual matters.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.
From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to the Company’s business and have demanded and may in the future demand that the Company license their technology.
The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some such lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company.
Generally speaking, intellectual property disputes often have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against the Company, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, or results of operations.
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in the 2017 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2017 10-K.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement.
The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in certain competition with the third party.
Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020.
The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act.
The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.
Item 5.
Other Information.
Approval of Revised Fiscal Year 2018 Executive Incentive Plan

On January 30, 2018, the Compensation Committee (the “Compensation Committee”) of the Company’s Board of Directors amended the Company’s Fiscal Year 2018 Executive Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) to provide that the portion of the incentive awards under the Incentive Plan that previously was attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP earnings per share (“EPS”) performance metric will instead be attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP operating income performance metric.
The non-GAAP operating income performance metric was established by the Compensation Committee on November 7, 2017, concurrently with the non-GAAP EPS performance metric.
The Compensation Committee approved the change in metrics in light of the favorable impact on the Company’s non-GAAP EPS for fiscal year 2018 that is now expected as a result of the new U.S. tax legislation, which was enacted on December 22, 2017, as well as the potential favorable impact on non-GAAP EPS of the Company’s new stock repurchase program.
The Compensation Committee believes this change maintains the original rigor of the performance incentive objectives of the Incentive Plan.
No other changes were made to the Incentive Plan.
Amendment to Third Amended and Restated By-laws

Effective January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved and adopted an amendment to our Third Amended and Restated By-laws (the “By-laws”) to grant stockholders the right to call a special meeting of stockholders.
Prior to the adoption of this provision, a special meeting of stockholders could only be called pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors.
Article II, Section 3 of the By-laws has been amended to permit stockholders who, individually or in the aggregate, own at least 25% of our outstanding shares of common stock and who have held such shares continuously for at least one year prior to their request, to call a special meeting of stockholders, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the By-laws.
This description of the amendment to the By-laws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the By-laws, as amended, which is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
