We eliminate all significant affiliate accounts and transactions in consolidation.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was April 1, 2018, the 91st day of our fiscal year 2018.
Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days.
Effective January 1, 2018, we changed our organizational structure and, as a result, now are reporting two segments.
During the financial closing process for the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined that certain consolidated financial statement amounts were not recorded correctly in prior interim periods of 2017.
We evaluated these errors and concluded that they were not material to any of our previously issued interim financial statements and did not require restatement of the quarters.
The errors primarily related to recognizing revenue prior to satisfying all of the delivery criteria in one business within our Enterprise segment.
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments.Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, approximately 48% and 49% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S, respectively.The Complaint alleged that Corning infringed two of PPC’s patents - U.S. Patent Nos.
We received a pre-tax amount of approximately $62.1 million from Corning on July 19, 2018.
On September 27, 2018, Corning filed a petition for certiorari review by the U.S. Supreme Court of the District Court’s decision to exercise its discretion to award PPC $23.85 million in enhanced damages based on the totality of the evidence, including a number of factual findings regarding Corning’s willful infringement and egregious conduct.
However, since the trends and outcome of this litigation are inherently uncertain, we cannot give absolute assurance regarding the future resolution of such litigation, or that such litigation may not become material in the future.
Following is a discussion of some of the more significant risks that could materially impact our business, including certain updates since previously disclosed in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 6, 2018.