fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
We eliminate all significant affiliate accounts and transactions in consolidation.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was March 31, 2019, the 90th day of our fiscal year 2019.
Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days.
As of and during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments.
As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand.
The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations.
The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions.
The new standard will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2020.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by major product category.
We generate revenues primarily by selling products that provide secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
We also generate revenues from providing support and professional services.
At times, we enter into arrangements that involve the delivery of multiple performance obligations.
For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied.


item2.txt
We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation.
We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S. As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.
Generally, as the costs of inventory purchases increase due to higher commodity prices, we raise selling prices to customers to cover the increase in costs, resulting in higher sales revenue but a lower gross profit percentage.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.
The markets in which we operate can generally be characterized as highly competitive and highly fragmented, with many players.
We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate.
Our strategic goal is to utilize our Market Delivery System to target faster growing geographies, applications, and trends within our end markets, in order to achieve growth that is higher than the general market growth rate.
We recognized $3.0 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three months ended March 31, 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



