fls.txt



item1.txt
We are subject to laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and information security, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such legal obligations could adversely affect our business.
The European Union ("EU") adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) which took effect on May 25, 2018 harmonizing data protection laws across the EU.


item2.txt
Net sales were $1.8 billion in the second quarter of 2018, a $263 million, or 18%, increase compared to the second quarter of 2017, reflecting solid demand across the globe for our products and services.
The net sales increase for the second quarter of 2018 included $154 million from acquisitions, $26 million from favorable foreign currency rates and $24 million from the adoption of ASC 606.
The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in every region.
Devices net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP.
Systems and Systems Integration net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in every region.
The Services and Software segment net sales increased in every region.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by the acquisitions of Plant and Kodiak Networks within the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by the acquisition of Kodiak Networks in the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
We recorded net charges of $71 million in the second quarter of 2018, compared to net charges of $37 million in the second quarter of 2017.
The net Other charges in the second quarter of 2018 were driven by $53 million of charges relating to the amortization of intangibles and $18 million of net reorganization of business charges.
The net charges in the second quarter of 2017 of $37 million were primarily from $37 million of charges relating to the amortization of intangibles.
Net Earnings Attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. After taxes, we had net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $180 million, or $1.05 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2018, compared to net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $131 million, or $0.78 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2017.
Net sales were $3.2 billion in the first half of 2018, a $450 million, or 16%, increase compared to the first half of 2017.
The net sales increase for the first half of 2018 included $201 million from acquisitions, $65 million from favorable foreign currency rates and $39 million from the adoption of ASC 606.The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in every region.
Within the Products and Systems Integration segment, Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP and Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in every region.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by the acquisitions of Plant and Kodiak Networks within the Software business, the acquisition of Interexport in Services and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 6.


part2.txt
The European Union ("EU") adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) which took effect on May 25, 2018 harmonizing data protection laws across the EU.
The GDPR strengthens individual privacy rights and enhances data protection obligations for processors and controllers of personal data.
This includes expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information and mandatory data breach notification requirements.
Also, U.S. federal, state and other foreign governments and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, storage, use, processing and disclosure personal data.
Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing practices or the features of our products, services and software.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds


