fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations.


item2.txt
Net sales were $1.9 billion in the third quarter of 2018, a $217 million, or 13%, increase compared to the third quarter of 2017.
The net sales increase for the third quarter of 2018 included $145 million from acquisitions and $19 million from the adoption of ASC 606 (see Note 1 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by $9 million from unfavorable foreign currency rates.
The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in the Americas and EMEA.
Devices net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP.
Systems and Systems Integration net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in every region.
The Services and Software segment net sales increased in every region.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by acquisitions within the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $6 million in the third quarter of 2018.
The net gains were related to the sales of various equity investments.
Net sales were $5.1 billion in the first nine months of 2018, a $666 million, or 15%, increase compared to the first nine months of 2017.
The net sales increase for the first nine months of 2018 included $347 million from acquisitions, $58 million from the adoption of ASC 606 (see Note 1 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), and $56 million from favorable foreign currency rates.
The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in every region.
Within the Products and Systems Integration segment, Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP and Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in every region.
The Services and Software segment increased in every region.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by acquisitions within the Software business, the acquisition of Interexport in Services and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by the acquisition of Kodiak Networks in the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and the Software businesses.
Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $16 million in the first nine months of 2018 compared to $3 million in the first nine months of 2017.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
As of September 29, 2018, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $782 million, compared to $507 million outstanding as of December 31, 2017.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 6.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.


