fls.txt
Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements included in: (1) “Financial Statements,” about the recognition of revenue in future periods, (2) “Management's Discussion and Analysis,” about: (a) trends affecting our business, including: (i) the impact of global economic and political conditions (ii) the impact of acquisitions on our business, (iii) the growth of our Services segment and the resulting impact on operating margin, (iv) the focus on Managed & Support Services and Software and our expected growth opportunities, (b) our business strategies and expected results, (c) future payments, charges, use of accruals and expected cost-saving benefits associated with our productivity improvement plans, reorganization of business programs, and employee separation costs, (d) our ability and cost to repatriate funds, (e) our ability to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash, (f) our ability and cost to access the capital markets at our current ratings, (g) our ability to borrow and the amount available under our credit facilities, (h) our plans with respect to the level of outstanding debt, (i) the return of capital to shareholders through dividends and/or repurchasing shares, (j) the adequacy of our cash balances to meet current operating requirements, (k) potential contractual damages claims, and (l) the outcome and effect of ongoing and future legal proceedings, (m) our ability to achieve target working capital levels following implementation of our ERP system, (3) "The impact of new FASB Accounting Standards Updates on our financial statements, (4) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” about the impact of foreign currency exchange risks, (5) “Legal Proceedings,” about the ultimate disposition of pending legal matters, and (6) "Controls and Procedures," about the implementation of our enterprise resource planning systems.
Motorola Solutions undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


item1.txt
However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.


item2.txt
On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation, a provider of advanced end-to-end security and surveillance solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, surveillance cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million.
On March 7, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million.
The impact from adoption increased Net sales by $15 million.
The decrease in net interest expense in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the first quarter of 2017 was a result of higher interest income due to amounts associated with a tax refund received within the first quarter of 2018.
Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $11 million in the first quarter of 2018 compared to net gains of $3 million in the first quarter of 2017.
The net gains in the first quarter of 2018 and 2017 were related to sales of various equity investments.
Net Earnings Attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. After taxes, we had net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $117 million, or $0.69 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2018, compared to net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $77 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2017.
For both the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, the segment’s net sales represented 55% of our consolidated net sales.
The segment’s net sales increased $98 million, to $801 million in the first quarter of 2018, as compared to $703 million during the first quarter of 2017.
Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA.
Systems net sales increased in EMEA and AP.
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 76% of the segment’s net sales in the first quarter of 2018, compared to 75% of the segment's net sales in the first quarter of 2017.
For both the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, the segment’s net sales represented 45% of our consolidated net sales.
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 59% of the segment’s net sales in the first quarter of 2018, compared to 58% of the segment’s net sales in the first quarter of 2017.
Cash payments for employee severance and exit costs in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $15 million in the first quarter of 2018 and $30 million in the first quarter of 2017.
The reorganization of business accruals at March 31, 2018 were $48 million, of which $39 million relate to employee separation costs that are expected to be paid within one year and $9 million of accruals related primarily to lease termination obligations that are expected to be paid over a number of years.
Restricted cash was $63 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Operating cash flows in the first quarter of 2018, as compared to the first quarter of 2017, were negatively impacted by the $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan, higher incentive payments, higher tax payments and the recovery of financial receivables owed to us in the first quarter of 2017.


item3.txt
Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.
Except for historical matters, the matters discussed in this Form 10-Q are forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable federal securities law.


item4.txt
The system also includes the replacement of our current indirect procurement and service contract systems.
We have made appropriate changes to our internal controls over financial reporting as we have implemented the new system.
We plan to continue to migrate the remaining parts of the business off regional systems as we work towards a single global platform.


part2.txt
The following table provides information with respect to acquisitions by the Company of shares of its common stock during the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Other Information.


