NetApp, Inc. (we, us, or the Company) provides global organizations the ability to manage and share their data across on-premises, private and public clouds. Together with our partners, we provide a full range of enterprise-class software, systems and services solutions that customers use to modernize their infrastructures, build next generation data centers and harness the power of hybrid clouds. 
The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; valuation of investment securities; income taxes and fair value measurements. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. 
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new standard, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), which establishes a comprehensive new revenue recognition model designed to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted this new standard using the full retrospective method of adoption. Accordingly, our prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and information, as presented herein, have been restated to conform to the new rules. Refer to Note 5 – Revenue for a summary of the impacts of adopting this standard, and a discussion of our updated policies related to revenue recognition. 
In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update (ASU) which eliminates the deferred tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory. As a result, tax expense from the sale of an asset in the seller’s tax jurisdiction is recognized when the transfer occurs, even though the pre-tax effects of that transaction are eliminated in consolidation. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted this ASU using a modified retrospective transition approach and recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings by $51 million, with a corresponding reduction of prepaid taxes, which were classified as other non-current assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.  
There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the nine months ended January 25, 2019, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2018. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. The standard introduces a new model for measuring and recognizing credit losses on financial instruments, requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, companies must apply a modified retrospective transition approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings, though a prospective transition approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date. Based on the composition of our investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
On September 17, 2018, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of a privately-held software company for $3 million in cash. Substantially all of the purchase price was recorded to goodwill. 
In September 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell certain land and buildings located in Sunnyvale, California, through two separate and independent closings, the first of which was completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. The remaining properties, consisting of land with a net book value of $52 million, were classified as assets held for sale, and included as other current assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of January 25, 2019 and April 27, 2018. We will consummate the sale of these properties, and receive cash proceeds of $96 million, upon the completion of the second closing, which is expected to occur within the next 12 months. That closing is subject to due diligence, certain termination rights and customary closing conditions, including local governmental approval of the subdivision of a land parcel.  
Warranty expense accrued during the period includes amounts accrued for systems at the time of shipment, adjustments for changes in estimated costs for warranties on systems shipped in the period and changes in estimated costs for warranties on systems shipped in prior periods. 
 Effective our first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted ASC 606 using the full retrospective method and have restated each prior reporting period presented to conform to the new rules. The most significant impact of the new standard relates to our accounting for arrangements containing software. For our enterprise software license agreements (ELAs), we now recognize the license fee component of such arrangements up front. Under the prior rules, the software license fee was recognized over the term of the enterprise license based on our inability to establish vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for the undelivered software support element of these arrangements. In addition, for other software arrangements, revenue deferred for the undelivered elements that was previously allocated based on the residual method is now allocated based on relative fair value, which generally results in more software arrangement revenue being recognized earlier. The new standard also impacts our estimation of variable consideration for certain arrangements with contract terms such as rights of return, potential penalties and acceptance clauses. 
 The adoption of ASC 606 had no impact to cash provided by or used in operating, investing or financing activities as presented on our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows. 
Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer — A contract with a customer exists when (i) we enter into an enforceable contract with a customer that (ii) defines each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred and (iii) identifies the payment terms related to these goods or services. Additionally, (iv) the contract has commercial substance and, (v) we determine that collection of substantially all consideration for goods or services that are transferred is probable based on the customer’s intent and ability to pay the promised consideration. We apply judgment in determining the customer’s ability and intention to pay, which is based on a variety of factors including the customer’s historical payment experience or, in the case of a new customer, published credit and financial information pertaining to the customer. We also combine two or more contracts entered into at or near the same time with the same customer as a single contract if the contracts are negotiated as one package with a single commercial objective, the amount of consideration to be paid on one contract depends on the price or performance of the other contract or if the goods and services promised in each of the contracts are a single performance obligation. 
Identification of the performance obligations in the contract — Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the goods or services (or a bundle of goods and services) that will be transferred to the customer that are distinct. A good or service is distinct if it is capable of being distinct, where the customer can benefit from the goods or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and is distinct in the context of the contract, meaning the transfer of the goods or services is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. To the extent a contract includes multiple promised goods or services, we apply judgment to determine whether promised goods or services are capable of being distinct and distinct in the context of the contract. If these criteria are not met, we combine the goods and services until we have a distinct performance obligation.  
Determination of the transaction price — The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer. Consideration promised may include fixed amounts, variable amounts or both. We use judgment in determining variable consideration, particularly if consideration is contingent on the occurrence or nonoccurrence of a future event. We use the expected value, primarily relying on our history, to estimate variable consideration. We may also use, in certain situations, the most likely amount as the basis of our estimate. In either case, we consider variable consideration only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. Reassessments of our variable consideration may occur as historical information changes. Transaction prices should also be adjusted for the effects of time value of money if the timing of payments provides either the customer or ourselves a significant benefit of financing. 
Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract — If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price basis. We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations. Variable consideration is also allocated to the performance obligations. If the terms of variable consideration relate to one performance obligation, it is entirely allocated to that obligation. Otherwise, it is allocated to all the performance obligations in the contract. 
Recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation — We satisfy performance obligations either over time or at a point in time. We typically recognize revenue at a point in time for promises to transfer goods to a customer. Services are typically transferred over time based on an appropriate method for measuring our progress toward completion of that performance obligation. Our stand-ready services, including both hardware and software maintenance support, are transferred ratably over the period of the contract. For other services such as our fixed professional services contract, we use an input method to determine the percentage of completion. That is, we estimate the effort to date versus the expected effort required over the life of the contract.  
 To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we have historically grouped our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions. Strategic solutions include Clustered ONTAP, branded E-Series, SolidFire, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure, ELAs and other optional add-on software products. Mature solutions include 7-mode ONTAP, add-on hardware and related operating system (OS) software and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) products. Both our Mature and Strategic product lines include a mix of disk, hybrid and all flash storage media. Additionally, we provide a variety of services including software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services including professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training.  
Deferred product revenue represents unrecognized revenue related to undelivered product commitments and other product deliveries that have not met all revenue recognition criteria. Deferred services revenue represents customer payments made in advance for services, which include software and hardware maintenance contracts and other services. Financed unearned services revenue represents undelivered services for which cash has been received under certain third-party financing arrangements. See Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies for additional information related to these arrangements.  
 During the nine months ended January 25, 2019 and January 26, 2018, we recognized $1,410 million and $1,466 million, respectively, that was included in the deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue balance at the beginning of the respective periods. 
 As of January 25, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations related to customer contracts that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied was $3,357 million, which is equivalent to our deferred revenue and unearned services revenue balance. Because customer orders are typically placed on an as-needed basis, and cancellable without penalty prior to shipment, orders in backlog may not be a meaningful indicator of future revenue and have not been included in this  
amount. We expect to recognize as revenue approximately 49% of our deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue balance in the next 12 months, approximately 26% in the next 13 to 24 months, and the remainder thereafter. 
6. Other income, net 
We consider an active market to be one in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis, and consider an inactive market to be one in which there are infrequent or few transactions for the asset or liability, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market makers. Where appropriate, our own or the counterparty’s non-performance risk is considered in measuring the fair values of liabilities and assets, respectively.  
 As of January 25, 2019 and April 27, 2018, the unrealized losses on our available-for-sale investments were caused by market value declines as a result of increasing market interest rates. Because the declines in market value are attributable to changes in market conditions and not credit quality, and because we have determined that (i) we do not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii) it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis, we have determined that no other-than-temporary impairments were required to be recognized on these investments as of January 25, 2019 and April 27, 2018.  
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.  
Our Level 2 debt instruments are held by a custodian who prices some of the investments using standard inputs in various asset price models or obtains investment prices from third-party pricing providers that incorporate standard inputs in various asset price models. These pricing providers utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available for these securities, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities. We review Level 2 inputs and fair value for reasonableness and the values may be further validated by comparison to multiple  
independent pricing sources. In addition, we review third-party pricing provider models, key inputs and assumptions and understand the pricing processes at our third-party providers in determining the overall reasonableness of the fair value of our Level 2 debt instruments. As of January 25, 2019 and April 27, 2018, we have not made any adjustments to the prices obtained from our third-party pricing providers.  
As of January 25, 2019 and April 27, 2018, the fair value of our long-term debt was approximately $1,523 million. The fair value of our long-term debt was based on observable market prices in a less active market. The fair value of our commercial paper notes approximated their carrying value. All of our debt obligations are categorized as Level 2 instruments.  
We may redeem the Senior Notes in whole or in part, at any time at our option at specified redemption prices. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain change of control triggering events, we may be required to repurchase the Senior Notes under specified terms. The Senior Notes also include covenants that limit our ability to incur debt secured by liens on assets or on shares of stock or indebtedness of our subsidiaries; to engage in certain sale and lease-back transactions; and to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. As of January 25, 2019, we were in compliance with all covenants associated with the Senior Notes. 
We have a commercial paper program (the Program), under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes. Amounts available under the Program, as amended in July 2017, may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed, with the aggregate face or principal amount of the notes outstanding under the Program at any time not to exceed $1.0 billion. The maturities of the notes can vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The notes are sold under customary terms in the commercial paper market and may be issued at a discount from par or, alternatively, may be sold at par and bear interest at rates dictated by market conditions at the time  
of their issuance. The proceeds from the issuance of the notes are used for general corporate purposes. As of January 25, 2019, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $164 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 2.87% and maturities ranging from 27 days to 36 days. As of April 27, 2018, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $385 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 2.29% and maturities ranging from 19 days to 32 days. 
In connection with the Program, we have a senior unsecured credit agreement with a syndicated group of lenders that expires on December 10, 2021. The credit agreement, as amended in July 2017, provides a $1.0 billion revolving unsecured credit facility, with a $50 million letter of credit sub-facility, that serves as a back-up for the Program. Proceeds from the facility may also be used for general corporate purposes to the extent that the credit facility exceeds the outstanding debt issued under the Program. The credit agreement includes options that allow us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $300 million and to extend its maturity date for two additional one-year periods, both subject to certain conditions. As of January 25, 2019 we were in compliance with all associated covenants in this agreement. No amounts were drawn against this facility during any of the periods presented. 
As of January 25, 2019, we have certain equity incentive awards (awards) outstanding, which include stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), including time-based RSUs and performance-based RSUs (PBRSUs), and Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) awards. 
The aggregate intrinsic value represents the pre-tax difference between the exercise price of stock options and the quoted market price of our stock on that day for all in-the-money options.  
As of January 25, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to our equity awards was $316 million, which is expected to be recognized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average remaining service period of 2.2 years.  
Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $13.6 billion of our common stock. Under this program, which we may suspend or discontinue at any time, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through solicited or unsolicited transactions in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, through accelerated share repurchase programs, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan or in such other manner as deemed appropriate by our management.  
The aggregate purchase price of our stock repurchases for the nine months ended January 25, 2019 consisted of $1,611 million of open market purchases, of which $898 million and $713 million were allocated to additional paid-in capital and retained earnings (accumulated deficit), respectively. 
Since the May 13, 2003 inception of our stock repurchase program through January 25, 2019, we repurchased a total of 306 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $36.72 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $11.2 billion. 
On February 13, 2019, we declared a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock, payable on April 24, 2019 to holders of record as of the close of business on April 5, 2019. The timing and amount of future dividends will depend on market conditions, corporate business and financial considerations and regulatory requirements. All dividends declared have been determined by us to be legally authorized under the laws of the state in which we are incorporated. 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted an ASU that eliminates the deferred tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory and recorded the cumulative-effect of adoption to retained earnings (accumulated deficit). Refer to Note 1 – Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies for details. 
We use derivative instruments to manage exposures to foreign currency risk. Our primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The maximum length of time over which forecasted foreign currency denominated revenues are hedged is six months. The program is not designated for trading or speculative purposes. Our derivatives expose us to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of our agreements with them. We seek to mitigate such risk by limiting our counterparties to major financial institutions. In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one counterparty resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. We also have in place master netting arrangements to mitigate the credit risk of our counterparties and to potentially reduce our losses due to counterparty nonperformance. We present our derivative instruments as net amounts in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The gross and net fair value amounts of such instruments were not material as of January 25, 2019 or April 27, 2018. We did not recognize any gains or losses in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness for any period presented. All contracts have a maturity of less than six months.  
The effect of cash flow hedges recognized in net revenues on our condensed consolidated statements of operations was immaterial in all periods presented.  
11. Restructuring Charges ` 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we announced a restructuring plan (the May 2018 Plan) to reduce costs and redirect resources to our highest return activities, which included a reduction in our global workforce of less than 2%. Charges related to the plan consisted primarily of employee severance-related costs. Substantially all activities under the plan have been completed. 
Management previously approved the November 2016 Plan, under which we reduced our global workforce by approximately 6%. We completed all workforce related activities under this plan as of the end of fiscal 2017. The remaining balance as of January 25, 2019 principally relates to lease obligations that will be paid over their remaining terms. 
Our effective tax rates reflect the impact of a significant amount of our earnings, primarily income from our European operations, being taxed in foreign jurisdictions at rates below the United States (U.S.) statutory tax rate. The differences in effective tax rates for the nine months ended January 25, 2019 and January 26, 2018 were primarily related to the fiscal 2018 impacts of U.S. tax reform and the sale of certain buildings and land in Sunnyvale, California. Our effective tax rates in the current year were impacted by the adoption of the new revenue standard, the reduced federal income tax rate due to U.S. tax reform, and differences in discrete benefits for stock-based compensation expenses. 
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) was enacted into law. The TCJA made significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system including a reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, the imposition of a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings, and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. ASC 740, Income Taxes, requires companies to recognize the effect of the tax law changes in the period of enactment. However, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, which allowed companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year from the TCJA enactment date. 
As a result of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate change, effective as of January 1, 2018, we remeasured our deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future periods. During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded $117 million of tax expense related to all tax rate changes. Upon finalization of our provisional estimates during the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we recorded tax expense of $6 million related to deferred tax assets for equity-based compensation awards to our executives. 
The TCJA imposed a mandatory, one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings and profits not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of 15.5% on earnings to the extent of foreign cash and other liquid assets, and 8% on the remaining earnings. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2018, we recorded a $739 million discrete tax expense for the estimated U.S. federal and state income tax impacts of the transition tax. In the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we finalized our computation of the transition tax and recorded a reduction of $5 million to our provisional estimate.  
We will continue to assess the impact of further guidance from federal and state tax authorities on our business and consolidated financial statements, and recognize any adjustments in the period in which they are determined. 
Under the TCJA, the global minimum tax on intangible income (“GMT”) provisions impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. Under U.S. GAAP, companies are allowed to make an accounting policy election to either (i) account for GMT as a component of tax expense in the period in which a company is subject to the rules, or (ii) account for GMT in a company’s measurement of deferred taxes. We have elected to recognize the GMT as a period cost. 
As of January 25, 2019, we had $382 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits. Inclusive of penalties, interest and certain income tax benefits, $308 million would affect our provision for income taxes if recognized, and $326 million has been recorded in other long-term liabilities. 
In September 2010, the Danish Tax Authorities issued a decision concluding that distributions declared in 2005 and 2006 by our Danish subsidiary were subject to Danish at-source dividend withholding tax. We do not believe that our Danish subsidiary is liable for such withholding tax and filed an appeal with the Danish Tax Tribunal. In December 2011, the Danish Tax Tribunal issued a ruling in favor of NetApp. The Danish tax examination agency appealed this decision at the Danish High Court (DHC) in March 2012. In February 2016, the DHC requested a preliminary ruling from the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU). Parties were heard before the court in October 2017. During March 2018, the Advocate General issued an opinion which was largely in favor of NetApp, however, the CJEU is not bound by the opinion of the Advocate General. We expect that their ruling will be issued before the end of fiscal year 2019. Once this ruling has been issued, it will be reviewed and may be subjected to additional briefing by the DHC. Once complete, the DHC will issue its final decision. We expect this decision to be issued by our fiscal year 2020. 
Less than 1 million potential shares from outstanding employee equity awards were excluded from the diluted net income (loss) per share calculation for the three and nine months ended January 25, 2019. For the three and nine months ended January 26, 2018, 15 million and 17 million potential shares from outstanding awards, respectively, were excluded from the calculation as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.  
Americas revenues consist of sales to Americas commercial and U.S. public sector markets. Sales to customers inside the U.S. were $744 million and $731 million during the three months ended January 25, 2019 and January 26, 2018, respectively, and were $2,294 million and 2,092 million during the nine months ended January 25, 2019 and January 26, 2018, respectively. 
We lease various equipment, vehicles and office space in the U.S. and internationally. Future annual minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year totaled $164 million as of January 25, 2019. 
In the ordinary course of business, we make commitments to third-party contract manufacturers to manage manufacturer lead times and meet product forecasts, and to other parties to purchase various key components used in the manufacturing of our products. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional commitments. As of January 25, 2019, we had $501 million in non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory. We record a liability for firm, non-cancelable and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of January 25, 2019 and April 27, 2018, such liability amounted to $17 million and $14 million, respectively, and is included in accrued expenses in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. To the extent that such forecasts are not achieved, our commitments and associated accruals may change. 
In addition to inventory commitments with contract manufacturers and component suppliers, we have open purchase orders and contractual obligations associated with our ordinary course of business for which we have not yet received goods or services. As of January 25, 2019, we had $4 million in construction related obligations and $220 million in other purchase obligations. 
While most of our arrangements for sales include short-term payment terms, from time to time we provide long-term financing to creditworthy customers. We have generally sold receivables financed through these arrangements on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions within 10 days of the contracts’ dates of execution, and we classify the proceeds from these sales as cash flows from operating activities in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. We account for the sales of these receivables as “true sales” as defined in the accounting standards on transfers of financial assets, as we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize product revenues for these arrangements, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions, upon product acceptance. We sold $54 million and $62 million of receivables during the nine months ended January 25, 2019 and January 26, 2018, respectively.  
In addition, we enter into arrangements with leasing companies for the sale of our hardware systems products. These leasing companies, in turn, lease our products to end-users. The leasing companies generally have no recourse to us in the event of default by the end-user and we recognize revenue upon delivery to the end-user customer, if all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.  
Some of the leasing arrangements described above have been financed on a recourse basis through third-party financing institutions. Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default. These arrangements are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Where we provide a guarantee for recourse leases, we recognize revenues in accordance with our revenue recognition policy, as updated to reflect the adoption of ASC 606. In connection with certain recourse financing arrangements, we receive advance payments associated with undelivered elements that are subject to customer refund rights. We defer revenue associated with these advance payments until the related refund rights expire and we perform the services. As of January 25, 2019 and April 27, 2018, the aggregate amount by which such contingencies exceeded the associated liabilities was not significant. To date, we have not experienced significant losses under our lease financing programs or other financing arrangements. 
We have entered into service contracts with certain of our end-user customers that are supported by third-party financing arrangements. If a service contract is terminated as a result of our non-performance under the contract or our failure to comply with the terms of the financing arrangement, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to acquire certain assets related to the service contract or to pay the aggregate unpaid financing payments under such arrangements. As of January 25, 2019, we have not been required to make any payments under these arrangements, and we believe the likelihood of having to acquire a material amount of assets or make payments under these arrangements is remote. The portion of the financial arrangement that represents unearned services revenue is included in deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. 
When a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable, we record a liability in the amount of our best estimate for the ultimate loss. However, the likelihood of a loss with respect to a particular contingency is often difficult to predict and determining a meaningful estimate of the loss or a range of loss may not be practicable based on the information available and the potential effect of future events and decisions by third parties that will determine the ultimate resolution of the contingency. 
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Item 1A. Risk Factors. 
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and related services. Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products and services, such products and services are subject to significant technical and quality control risks. 
Our new consumption-based business models may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 
As customer demand for our consumption model offerings increases, we will experience differences in the timing of revenue recognition between our traditional hardware and software license arrangements, including for the software license components of enterprise software license agreements, (for which revenue is generally recognized in full at the time of delivery), relative to our consumption model offerings, (for which revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement). We incur certain expenses associated with the infrastructure and marketing of our consumption model offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. 
Increasing competition and industry consolidation could harm our business and operating results. 
The storage and data management markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology and fragmentation. We compete with many companies in the markets we serve, including established public companies, newly public companies with a strong flash focus, and new market entrants addressing the growing opportunity for hyper-converged systems. Some offer a broad spectrum of IT products and services (full-stack vendors) and others offer a more limited set of storage and data management products or services. Technology trends, such as the emergence of hosted or public cloud storage, SaaS and flash storage are driving significant changes in storage architectures and solution requirements. Cloud service providers provide customers storage for their data centers on demand, without requiring a capital expenditure, which meets rapidly evolving business needs and has changed the competitive landscape.  
For additional information regarding our competitors, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1 – Business of Part I of the 2018 Form 10-K. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors might emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or buying power. An increase in industry consolidation might result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as full-stack vendors for customers and achieve increased economies of scale in the supply chain. For example, in October 2016, Dell Inc. and EMC Corp. consummated their agreement to merge. Also, in April 2017, HP Enterprise completed their acquisition of Nimble Storage. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or might establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners or suppliers. 
Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and 
Linearity, such as our historical intra-quarter bookings and revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter’s total bookings and related revenue occur in the last month of the quarter. 
Our gross margins vary. 
The costs of third-party components comprise a significant portion of our product costs. While we generally have been able to manage our component and product design costs, we may have difficulty managing these costs if supplies of certain components become limited or component prices increase. Any such limitation could result in an increase in our product costs. An increase in component or design costs relative to our product prices could harm our gross margins and earnings. 
We often incur expenses before we receive related benefits, and expenses may be difficult to reduce quickly if demand declines. 
We base our expense levels in part on future revenue expectations and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. It is difficult to reduce our fixed costs quickly, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results could be adversely impacted. During periods of uneven growth or decline, we may incur costs before we realize the anticipated related benefits, which could also harm our operating results. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the related anticipated benefits, such as revenue growth, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 
If we are unable to maintain and develop relationships with strategic partners, our revenues may be harmed. 
Our growth strategy includes developing and maintaining strategic partnerships with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with them. A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets. In particular, strategic  
partnerships with hyperscalers and cloud service vendors are critical to the success of our cloud-based business. However, there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and these relationships may not be exclusive, may not generate significant revenues and may be terminated on short notice. For instance, some of our partners are also partnering with our competitors, which may increase the availability of competing solutions and harm our ability to grow our relationships with those partners. Moreover, some of our partners, particularly large, more diversified technology companies, are also competitors, thereby complicating our relationships. If we are unable to establish new partnerships or maintain existing partnerships, if our strategic partners favor their relationships with other vendors in the storage industry or if our strategic partners increasingly compete with us, we could experience lower than expected revenues, suffer delays in product development, or experience other harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. 
If we do not achieve forecasted bookings in any quarter, our financial results could be harmed. 
A portion of our revenues is generated by large, recurring purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. A loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties has negatively affected us in the past, and could negatively affect our revenues in the future. 
A significant portion of our net revenues are generated through sales to a limited number of distributors. We generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers, resellers and distributors for extended periods of time, and thus there is no guarantee we will continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors. For example, our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases, and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop purchasing and marketing our products at any time. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors or the ability of such customers, resellers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. If any of our key customers, resellers or distributors changes its pricing practices, reduces the size or frequency of its orders for our products, or stops purchasing our products altogether, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. 
We rely on a limited number of suppliers for critical product components. 
We rely on a limited number of suppliers for drives and other components utilized in the assembly of our products, including certain single source suppliers, which has subjected us, and could in the future subject us, to price rigidity, periodic supply constraints, and the inability to produce our products with the quality and in the quantities demanded. Consolidation among suppliers, particularly within the semiconductor and disk drive industries, has contributed to price rigidity and may in the future create supply constraints. When industry supply is constrained, our suppliers may allocate volumes away from us and to our competitors, all of which rely on many of the same suppliers as we do. Accordingly, our operating results may be harmed. 
Such risks have subjected us, and could in the future subject us, to supply constraints, price increases and minimum purchase requirements and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. The risks associated with our outsourced manufacturing model are particularly acute when we transition products to new facilities or manufacturers, introduce and increase volumes of new products or qualify new contract manufacturers or suppliers, at which times our ability to manage the relationships among us, our manufacturing partners and our component suppliers, becomes critical. New manufacturers, products, components or facilities create increased costs and risk that we will fail to deliver high quality products in the required volumes to our customers. Any failure of a manufacturer or component supplier to meet our quality, quantity or delivery requirements in a cost-effective manner will harm our business, operating results and customer relationships. 
Due to the global nature of our business, risks inherent in our international operations could materially harm our business. 
A significant portion of our operations are located, and a significant portion of our revenues are derived, outside of the U.S. In addition, most of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S., and we have research and development, sales and service centers overseas. Accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our international operations including, among other things, local political or economic conditions, trade protection and export and import requirements, tariffs, local labor conditions, transportation costs, government spending patterns, acts of terrorism, international conflicts and natural disasters in areas with limited infrastructure. In particular, the current trade tensions between the U.S. and China, including newly imposed tariffs, and the United Kingdom’s pending withdrawal from the European Union, which is scheduled to be effective on March 29, 2019, could impact our business and operating results. In addition, due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to complex legal and regulatory requirements in the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and sell our products, including antitrust and anti-competition laws, rules and regulations, and regulations related to data privacy. We are also subject to the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation, or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than U.S. laws. Such factors could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. 
We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. We utilize forward and option contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities. Our hedging strategies may not be successful, and currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. In addition, our foreign currency exposure on assets, liabilities and cash flows that we do not hedge could have a material impact on our financial results in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to foreign currencies. 
Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. 
Many countries around the world are beginning to implement legislation and other guidance to align their international tax rules with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting recommendations and related action plans that aim to standardize and modernize global corporate tax policy, including changes to cross-border tax, transfer-pricing documentation rules and nexus-based tax incentive practices. As a result, many of these changes, if enacted, could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. 
Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. 
Our clients, including data centers, SaaS, cloud computing and internet infrastructure and bandwidth providers, rely on our products for their data storage needs. Our clients may authorize third-party technology providers to access their data on our systems. Because we do not control the transmissions between our clients, their customers, and third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the complete integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. Errors or wrongdoing by clients, their customers, or third-party technology providers resulting in security breaches may be attributed to us. 
information over the internet, including through news articles, blogs, chat rooms, and social media sites. This may affect our ability to retain clients and attract new business. 
We store and transmit personal, sensitive and proprietary data related to our products, our employees, customers, clients and partners (including third-party vendors such as data centers and providers of SaaS, cloud computing, and internet infrastructure and bandwidth), and their respective customers, including intellectual property, books of record and personal information. It is critical to our business strategy that our infrastructure, products and services remain secure and are perceived by customers, clients and partners to be secure. There are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, human error and technological vulnerabilities. Cybersecurity incidents or other security breaches could result in (1) unauthorized access to, or loss or unauthorized disclosure of, such information; (2) litigation, indemnity obligations, government investigations and other possible liabilities; (3) negative publicity; and (4) disruptions to our internal and external operations. Any of these could damage our reputation and public perception of the security and reliability of our products, as well as harm our business and cause us to incur significant liabilities. In addition, a cybersecurity incident or other security breach could result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, disruption of internal operations, increased cybersecurity protection costs and lost revenues. 
Our clients and customers use our platforms for the transmission and storage of sensitive data. We do not review the information or content that our clients and their customers upload and store, and, therefore, we have no direct control over the substance of the information or content stored within our platforms. If our employees, or our clients, partners or their respective customers use our platforms for the transmission or storage of personal or other sensitive information and our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business may be harmed and we could incur significant liabilities. 
High-profile cyberattacks and security breaches have increased in recent years, and security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyberattacks targeting IT products and businesses. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. As we continue to increase our client base and expand our brand, we may become more of a target for third parties seeking to compromise our security systems and we anticipate that hacking attempts and cyberattacks will increase in the future. We cannot give assurance that we will always be successful in preventing or repelling unauthorized access to our systems. 
There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. Our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or our insurers may deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 
Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel and to preserve the key aspects of our corporate culture. Because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified engineers, including in emerging areas of technology such as artificial intelligence and machine learning. In addition, to increase revenues, we will be required to increase the productivity of our sales force and support infrastructure to achieve adequate customer coverage. Competition for qualified employees, particularly in Silicon Valley,  
Equity grants are a critical component of our current compensation programs. If we reduce, modify or eliminate our equity programs, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining critical employees.  
In addition, because of the structure of our cash and equity incentive compensation plans, we may be at increased risk of losing employees at certain times. For example, the retention value of our compensation plans decreases after the payment of annual bonuses or the vesting of equity awards. 
We are continually seeking ways to make our cost structure, business processes and systems more efficient, including by moving activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing new business information systems. Problems with the execution of these activities could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of these initiatives. 
We continuously seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient, including by moving our business activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing changes to our business information systems. These efforts involve a significant investment of financial and human resources and significant changes to our current operating processes. In addition, as we move operations into lower-cost jurisdictions and outsource certain business processes, we become subject to new regulatory regimes and lose control of certain aspects of our operations and, as a consequence, become more dependent upon the systems and business processes of third-parties. If we are unable to move our operations, outsource business processes and implement new business information systems in a manner that complies with local law and maintains adequate standards, controls and procedures, the quality of our products and services may suffer and we may be subject to increased litigation risk, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, we may not achieve the expected benefits of these and other transformational initiatives, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 
As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. For example, in fiscal 2018 we acquired two privately held companies, and in fiscal 2016 we acquired SolidFire, Inc. The benefits we have received, and expect to receive, from these and other acquisitions depend on our ability to successfully conduct due diligence, negotiate the terms of the acquisition and integrate the acquired business into our systems, procedures and organizational structure. Any inaccuracy in our acquisition assumptions or any failure to uncover liabilities or risks associated with the acquisition, make the acquisition on favorable terms, integrate the acquired business or assets as and when expected or retain key employees of the acquired company may reduce or eliminate the expected benefits of the acquisition to us, increase our costs, disrupt our operations, result in additional liabilities, investigations and litigation, and may also harm our strategy, our business and our operating results. The failure to achieve expected acquisition benefits may also result in impairment charges for goodwill and purchased intangible assets. 
The U.S. government is an important customer for us. However, government demand is uncertain, as it is subject to political and budgetary fluctuations and constraints. Events such as the U.S. federal government shutdowns in October 2013 and from December 2018 to January 2019 and continued uncertainty regarding the U.S. budget and debt levels have increased demand uncertainty for our products, and in our fiscal 2016 resulted in lower sales to these customers. In addition, like other customers, the U.S. government may evaluate competing products and delay purchasing in the face of the technology transitions taking place in the storage industry. If the U.S. government or an individual agency or multiple agencies within the U.S. government continue to reduce or shift their IT spending patterns, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. 
Selling our products to the U.S. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines, and other penalties, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. As an example, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and the General Services Administration (GSA) have in the past pursued claims against and financial settlements with IT vendors, including us and several of our competitors and channel partners, under the False Claims Act and other statutes related to pricing and discount practices and compliance with certain provisions of GSA contracts for sales to the federal government. Although the DOJ and GSA currently have no claims pending against us, we could face claims in the future.  
We are exposed to credit risks and fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio.  
In addition, all our debt and credit facility arrangements subject us to continued compliance with restrictive and financial covenants. If we do not comply with these covenants or otherwise default under the arrangements, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts borrowed under these agreements. Moreover, compliance with these covenants may restrict our strategic or operational flexibility in the future, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 
We are exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our customers, resellers and distributors, especially during times of economic uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in material losses. 
Most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days. We may experience losses due to a customer’s inability to pay. Beyond our open credit arrangements, some of our customers have entered into recourse and non-recourse financing leasing arrangements using third-party leasing companies. Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default. During periods of economic uncertainty, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. In addition, our exposure to credit risks of our customers may increase further if our customers and their customers or their lease financing sources are adversely affected by global economic conditions. 
Our failure to adjust to emerging standards in the storage and data management industry may harm our business. 
Emerging standards in the storage and data management markets may adversely affect the UNIX®, Windows® and World Wide Web server markets upon which we depend. For example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability and permanence in the U.S. and in the other countries in which we operate. If our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we may not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted. 
Some of our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and other laws affecting the countries in which our products and services may be sold, distributed, or delivered, and any violation of these laws could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 
Due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to import and export restrictions and regulations, including the Export Administration Regulations administered by the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) and the trade and economic sanctions regulations administered by the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). The U.S., through the BIS and OFAC, places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons. Violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products to the federal government. Our products could be shipped to those targets by third parties, including potentially our channel partners, despite our precautions. 
Changes in regulations relating to our products or their components, or the manufacture, sourcing, distribution or use thereof, may harm our business and operating results. 
The laws and regulations governing the manufacturing, sourcing, distribution and use of our products have become more complex and stringent over time. For example, in addition to various environmental laws relating to carbon emissions and the use and discharge of hazardous materials, the SEC adopted regulations concerning the supply of certain minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. We incur costs to comply with the disclosure requirements of this law and may realize other costs relating to the sourcing and availability of minerals used in our products. Further, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational harm if our customers or other stakeholders conclude that we are unable to verify sufficiently the origins of the minerals used in the products we sell. As the laws and regulations governing our products continue to expand and change, our costs are likely to rise, and the failure to comply with any such laws and regulations could subject us to business interruptions, litigation risks and reputational harm. 
Our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of natural disasters, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. 
We depend on the ability of our personnel, inventories, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. Any political, military, terrorism, global trade, world health or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. Furthermore, any economic failure or other material disruption caused by natural disasters, including fires, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, and volcanoes; power loss or shortages; environmental disasters; telecommunications or business information systems failures or break-ins and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. If such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on IT, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, or impair our ability to meet our customer demands, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our headquarters is located in Northern California, an area susceptible to earthquakes and wildfires. If any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business and our financial condition could be impaired. 
