We are the data authority for the hybrid cloud. Digital transformation remains top of mind for executives. In order to successfully digitally transform, data must become the lifeblood of an organization and be used as a business accelerator. Data-driven digital transformations accelerate business outcomes. Together with our partners, we empower global organizations to unleash the full potential of their data to enable new customer touchpoints, create innovative business opportunities and optimize operations. 
NetApp delivers a Data Fabric built for the data-driven world. Our Data Fabric simplifies and integrates data management across clouds and on-premises to accelerate digital transformation, enabling our customers to manage, secure and protect their data at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world. It delivers integrated data management services and applications for data visibility and insights, data access and control, and data protection and security. 
We focus on delivering an exceptional customer experience to become our customers’ preferred data partner. NetApp’s unique approach to managing data holistically enables organizations to inspire innovation with the cloud, build clouds to accelerate new services, and modernize IT architecture with cloud-connected flash.  
Continually fuel business growth by delivering data-rich customer experiences through new application deployments that easily use data and services regardless of where they reside or in what form.  
Customers are attracted by the speed and scale benefits of the public cloud but need new data management capabilities to keep control of data as it moves beyond the walls of the enterprise. NetApp believes the hybrid cloud is fast becoming the dominant model for enterprise IT. Whether an organization is targeting an all-cloud, hybrid cloud, or multi-cloud strategy, NetApp Cloud Data Services accelerate the time it takes to deploy or develop an application by making the data requirements seamless to the application layer. 
Budget constraints and skill imbalances lead our customers to seek help in integrating, deploying and managing the solutions they need to stay competitive. This drives demand for converged and hyper-converged infrastructure solutions. FlexPod is the converged infrastructure of choice for many of the largest enterprises around the globe. Customers can break free from the limits of first-generation HCI with NetApp HCI and attain guaranteed performance with high levels flexibility, scale, automation, and integration with the Data Fabric. 
Flash plays a key role in customers’ digital transformation efforts as they seek to gain advantage through greater speed, responsiveness and value from key business applications - all while lowering total cost of ownership. All-flash array technology is the de facto choice for primary application workloads as customers seek performance and economic benefits from replacing hard disk installations. With a highly differentiated and broad portfolio of all-flash and hybrid array offerings, NetApp is well positioned to enable customers to accomplish this transition. 
To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we have historically grouped our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions. Strategic solutions include Clustered ONTAP, branded E-Series, SolidFire, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure, enterprise software license agreements (ELAs) and other optional add-on software products. Mature solutions include 7-mode ONTAP, add-on hardware and related operating system (OS) software and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) products. Both our Mature and Strategic product lines include a mix of disk, hybrid and all flash storage media. 
As of the beginning of fiscal 2019, we adopted the new accounting standard Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) using the full retrospective method of adoption. Accordingly, our prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and supplementary data, as presented herein, have been restated to conform to the new rules. As illustrated in Note 5 – Revenue of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the overall impact of adoption was not significant to prior periods. However, application of the new rules to our ELAs resulted in approximately $110 million of product revenues for such arrangements in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, that are incremental to the amounts we would have recognized under the old standard. None of this incremental revenue was recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. Under ASC 606, we recognize the software license fee component of our ELAs up-front, whereas under the prior rules the software license fee was recognized over the term of the ELA. 
Our fiscal year is reported as a 52- or 53-week year that ends on the last Friday in April. Fiscal years 2019 and 2018 are each 52-week years, with 13 weeks in each of their quarters. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months and periods refer to the Company’s fiscal years ended in April and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. 
Net revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 were $1,563 million and $4,554 million, respectively, reflecting an increase of $24 million, or 2%, and $279 million, or 7%, respectively, compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year, primarily reflecting higher product revenues, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the third quarter.  
Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the third quarter increased by half of one percentage point compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and increased one and a half percentage points in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 when compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, primarily reflecting higher margins on product revenues, partially offset by an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the third quarter. Gross profit margins on product revenues increased by almost one percentage point in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and three percentage points in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2018, reflecting slightly higher average selling prices (ASPs), lower average materials costs in the third quarter, and for the nine months period, higher margins on revenue recognized during the current year related to the software license components of several ELAs.  
The increase in net revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to an increase in product revenues of $15 million and $257 million, respectively. Product revenues as a percentage of net revenues were flat in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, and increased two percentage points in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018.  
Total product revenues from strategic solutions totaled $674 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 reflecting a 3% increase from $657 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to increased sales of All-Flash FAS products and hyper-converged infrastructure solutions, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Total product revenues from strategic solutions totaled $1,935 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 reflecting a 12% increase from $1,721 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Contributing to this increase was over $110 million of revenues from the software license component of several ELAs in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 which, under ASC 606, were recognized up-front. Comparable ELA revenues were immaterial in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Revenues generated from the sale of optional add-on software unrelated to ELAs, All-Flash FAS products and hyperconverged infrastructure solutions also increased in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period of the prior year.  
The fluctuations in software maintenance revenues reflect fluctuations in the aggregate contract value of the installed base under software maintenance contracts, which is recognized as revenue ratably over the terms of the underlying contracts.  
Hardware maintenance and other services revenues include hardware maintenance, professional services, and educational and training services revenues.  
Hardware maintenance contract revenues decreased slightly year over year, at $292 million and $898 million, respectively, for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to $300 million and $904 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of the prior year.  
Professional services and educational and training services revenues were $65 million and $197 million, respectively, for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to $66 million and $205 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of the prior year.  
Americas revenues consist of sales to Americas commercial and U.S. public sector markets. Our geographic distribution of revenues as a percentage of net revenues was relatively consistent in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2018. During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, Americas revenues were negatively impacted by general macroeconomic conditions in the region. 
Cost of product revenues represented 49% and 47% of product revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, compared to 49% and 50% for the corresponding periods of fiscal 2018. Materials costs represented 90% of product costs for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to 91% and 90% in the corresponding periods of fiscal 2018. 
Materials costs decreased $8 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, primarily due to a decline in the price of certain product components. Materials costs increased $39 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, primarily due to higher unit volumes of certain products.  
The average unit materials costs of Clustered ONTAP systems decreased slightly in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, while it increased slightly in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year.  
Margins on revenue recognized for strategic solutions were relatively flat during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, while they were higher during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year due to the benefit of high margins realized on the software license components of several ELAs, and, to a lesser extent, higher ASPs. Margins for mature products increased slightly in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year. 
Cost of software maintenance revenues in dollars was relatively flat in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2018 and represented 4% of software maintenance revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019. 
Cost of hardware maintenance and other services revenues decreased by $6 million, or 6%, and $19 million, or 6%, respectively, for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2018, primarily due to the favorable impact of cost savings initiatives. Costs represented 29% of hardware maintenance and other services revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to 30% in the corresponding periods of the prior year.  
Total compensation costs included in operating expenses decreased by $5 million, or 1% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period of the prior year primarily due to lower incentive compensation expense and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, partially offset by higher salaries and stock-based compensation expenses, reflecting a slight increase in average headcount.  
Total compensation costs included in operating expenses increased by $5 million, or less than 1% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, primarily due to higher salaries and benefits expense, partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense.  
The increase in compensation costs for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year was attributable to an increase in average headcount of 6% and 7%, respectively, resulting in higher salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The increase in headcount reflects our investment in additional engineering resources to support the expansion and enhancement of products and solutions targeted at our most important customer and market opportunities. Development projects and outside services expense for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased as a result of higher spending on materials and services associated with engineering activities to develop new products and enhance existing ones. Facilities and IT support costs increased in the current year periods in connection with the increase in average headcount.  
The decrease in compensation costs for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year was attributable to lower incentive compensation and salaries expense, and to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations during the third quarter. While average headcount increased in the current year periods, salaries expense decreased because a greater percentage of employees were located in lower cost geographies. The decrease in facilities and IT support costs for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year was primarily due to lower spending levels on IT projects.  
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we announced a restructuring plan (the May 2018 Plan) to reduce costs and redirect resources to our highest return activities, which included a reduction in our global workforce of less than 2%. Charges related to the plan consisted primarily of employee severance-related costs. Substantially all activities under the plan have been completed. See Note 11 – Restructuring Charges of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more details. 
In September 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell certain land and buildings located in Sunnyvale, California, through two separate and independent closings. Upon the completion of the first closing in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we consummated the sale of properties with a net book value of $66 million for cash proceeds of $210 million, resulting in a gain, net of direct selling costs, of $142 million. 
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, our continuing involvement with properties subject to a sale-leaseback arrangement entered into in fiscal 2016 ended, and as a result we recorded a non-cash sale of properties, extinguished the associated financing obligation and recognized a gain of $76 million. 
Interest income increased in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year, primarily due to a shift in our investment portfolio to higher-yielding investments, partially offset by a decrease in the size of the portfolio. Interest expense declined in the current year periods due to a reduction in the average amount of interest-bearing debt outstanding. Other income, net decreased in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year primarily due to lower net foreign exchange gains. 
Our effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was 21.9% compared to an effective tax rate of 195.0% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Our effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was 12.6% compared to an effective tax rate of 120.0% for the corresponding period of fiscal 2018. Our effective tax rates reflect the impact of a significant amount of our earnings, primarily income from our European operations, being taxed in foreign jurisdictions at rates below the U.S. statutory tax rate. Our effective tax rates decreased for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year primarily due to the provisional impacts of U.S. tax reform, and the sale of certain land in Sunnyvale, California, which resulted in aggregate discrete tax charges of $856 million and $72 million, respectively, in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Our effective tax rates in the current year were also impacted by a reduction of the federal income tax rate under U.S. tax reform and discrete impacts related to stock-based compensation. Additionally, our effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 reflects a $34 million discrete tax benefit for certain intercompany transactions resulting from the retrospective application of the new revenue standard.  
Days sales outstanding, referred to as DSO, calculates the average collection period of our receivables. DSO is based on ending accounts receivable and net revenue for each period. DSO is calculated by dividing accounts receivable by average net revenue per day for the current quarter (91 days for each of the quarters presented above). DSO for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018 primarily due to one of our major distributors choosing not to take advantage of an early payment discount in the current quarter, while it decreased compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 due to lower seasonal invoicing levels and more favorable shipping linearity. 
Days inventory outstanding, referred to as DIO, measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our products. DIO is based on ending inventory and cost of revenues for each period. DIO is calculated by dividing ending inventory by average cost of revenues per day for the current quarter. DIO for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher levels of finished goods on hand at the end of the current quarter, while it decreased compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 due to lower levels of finished goods on hand at the end of the current quarter.  
Days payables outstanding, referred to as DPO, calculates the average number of days our payables remain outstanding before payment. DPO is based on ending accounts payable and cost of revenues for each period. DPO is calculated by dividing accounts payable by average cost of revenues per day for the current quarter. DPO for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018, due to differences in the timing of purchases from and payments to our suppliers. DPO for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared to the fourth quarter of 2018, primarily due to the timing of purchases from contract manufacturers. 
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we generated cash from operating activities of $942 million, reflecting net income of $773 million, adjusted by non-cash depreciation and amortization of $149 million, and stock-based compensation of $121 million, compared to $984 million of cash generated from operating activities during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.  
Accounts receivable decreased $165 million, reflecting lower DSO. 
Accounts payable decreased $101 million, reflecting lower DPO. 
Long-term taxes payable decreased $60 million, primarily due to transition taxes associated with U.S. tax reform. 
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we generated $661 million from maturities and sales of investments, net of purchases, and paid $138 million for capital expenditures, while during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we used $178 million for the purchase of investments, net of maturities and sales, and paid $97 million for capital expenditures. Additionally, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we paid $75 million to acquire two privately-held companies, and received proceeds of $210 million from the sale of properties. 
Key factors that could affect our cash flows include changes in our revenue mix and profitability, our ability to effectively manage our working capital, in particular, accounts receivable, accounts payable and inventories, the timing and amount of stock repurchases and payment of cash dividends, the impact of foreign exchange rate changes, our ability to effectively integrate acquired products, businesses and technologies and the timing of repayments of our debt. Based on past performance and our current business outlook, we believe that our sources of liquidity, including potential future issuances of debt, equity or other securities, will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on our debt and other liquidity requirements associated with operations and meet our cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, in the event our liquidity is insufficient, we may be required to curtail spending and implement additional cost saving measures and restructuring actions or enter into new financing arrangements. We cannot be certain that we will continue to generate cash flows at or above current levels or that we will be able to obtain additional financing, if necessary, on satisfactory terms, if at all. 
Our principal sources of liquidity as of January 25, 2019 consisted of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, cash we expect to generate from operations, and our commercial paper program and related credit facility.  
Our principal liquidity requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support ongoing business activities, fund research and development, meet capital expenditure needs, invest in critical or complementary technologies, service interest and principal payments on our debt, fund our stock repurchase program, and pay dividends, as and if declared. 
The principal objectives of our investment policy are the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. We attempt to mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. We believe our cash equivalents and short-term investments are liquid and accessible. We are not aware of any significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or investments from the values reported as of January 25, 2019.  
Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semi-annually. For further information on the underlying terms, see Note 8 – Financing Arrangements of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
In connection with the Program, we have a senior unsecured credit agreement that expires on December 10, 2021. The credit agreement provides a $1.0 billion revolving unsecured credit facility that serves as a back-up for the Program. Proceeds from the facility may also be used for general corporate purposes, providing another potential source of liquidity to the extent that the credit facility exceeds the outstanding debt issued under the Program. The credit agreement also includes options that allow us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $300 million and to extend its maturity date for two additional one-year periods, both subject to certain conditions. As of January 25, 2019, we were in compliance with all associated covenants in this agreement. No amounts were drawn against this facility during any of the periods presented. 
On February 13, 2019, we declared a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock, payable on April 24, 2019 to holders of record as of the close of business on April 5, 2019. 
Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $13.6 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. Under this program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through solicited or unsolicited transactions in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, through accelerated share repurchase programs, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan or in such other manner as deemed appropriate by our management. The stock repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Since the May 13, 2003 inception of this program through January 25, 2019, we repurchased a total of 306 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $36.72 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $11.2 billion. As of January 25, 2019, the remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program was $2.4 billion. 
As of January 25, 2019, future annual minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year totaled $164 million.  
In the ordinary course of business, we make commitments to our third-party contract manufacturers to manage manufacturer lead times and meet product forecasts, and to other parties to purchase various key components used in the manufacture of our products. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional commitments. As of January 25, 2019, we had $501 million in non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory. We record a liability for firm, non-cancelable and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. To the extent that such forecasts are not achieved, our commitments and associated accruals may change.  
In addition to inventory commitments with contract manufacturers and component suppliers, we have open purchase orders and construction related obligations associated with our ordinary course of business for which we have not received goods or services. As of January 25, 2019, we had $4 million in construction related obligations and $220 million in other purchase obligations.  
While most of our arrangements for sales include short-term payment terms, from time to time we provide long-term financing to creditworthy customers. We have generally sold receivables financed through these arrangements on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions within 10 days of the contracts’ dates of execution, and we classify the proceeds from these sales as cash flows from operating activities in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. We account for the sales of these receivables as “true sales” as defined in the accounting standards on transfers of financial assets, as we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize product revenues for these arrangements, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions, upon product acceptance. We sold $54 million and $62 million of receivables during the nine months ended January 25, 2019 and January 26, 2018, respectively. 
Some of the leasing arrangements described above have been financed on a recourse basis through third-party financing institutions. Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default. These arrangements are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Where we provide a guarantee for recourse leases, we recognize revenues in accordance with our revenue recognition policy, as updated to reflect the adoption of ASC 606. In connection with certain recourse financing arrangements, we receive advance payments associated with undelivered elements that are subject to customer refund rights. As of January 25, 2019 and April 28, 2017, the aggregate amount by which such contingencies exceeded the associated liabilities was not significant. To date, we have not experienced significant losses under our lease financing programs or other financing arrangements. 
We have entered into service contracts with certain of our end-user customers that are supported by third-party financing arrangements. If a service contract is terminated as a result of our non-performance under the contract or our failure to comply with the terms of the financing arrangement, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to acquire certain assets related to the service contract or to pay the aggregate unpaid payments under such arrangements. As of January 25, 2019, we have not been required to make any payments under these arrangements, and we believe the likelihood of having to acquire a material amount of assets or make payments under these arrangements is remote. The portion of the financial arrangement that represents unearned services revenue is included in deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.  
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of business. See further details on such matters in Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.  
In May 2003, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program. As of January 25, 2019, our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $13.6 billion of our common stock. Since inception of the program through January 25, 2019, we repurchased a total of 306 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $11.2 billion. Under this program, which we may suspend or discontinue at any time, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through solicited or unsolicited transactions in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, through accelerated share repurchase programs, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan or in such other manner as deemed appropriate by our management. 
