fls.txt



item1.txt
Amounts as of April 29, 2018 are unaudited.
Amounts as of October 29, 2017 are derived from the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements.
Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contain 52 weeks, and the first half of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 26 weeks.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Inventory Measurement.
This guidance does not apply to inventory that is measured using last-in, first out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method but applies to all other inventory including those measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or the average cost method.
Applied adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 prospectively to measurement of inventory after the effective date.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Share-Based Compensation.
In the six months ended April 29, 2018, Applied recognized an excess tax benefit of $53 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
The authoritative guidance expands the application of hedge accounting for non-financial and financial risk components and eases certain hedge effectiveness assessment requirements.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In March 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which requires companies to present the service cost component of net benefit cost in the same line items in which they report compensation cost.


item2.txt
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contains 52 weeks, and the first six months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 26 weeks.
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, healthy investment in semiconductor manufacturing equipment and services continued to be a strong driver of revenue.
Overall semiconductor systems revenue increased as logic and NAND demand remained strong, and dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) demand increased, reflecting increasing memory requirements in smartphones and servers.
Display equipment spending reflected continued investment in new technology and manufacturing equipment.
Customers invested in a new generation of equipment for producing larger LCD TVs and continued to invest in new equipment for mobile devices.
The second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of recent U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.07 and $1.02, respectively.
For the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales increased primarily due to increased customer investments in all segments, with majority of the increases resulting from investments in semiconductor equipment.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 12 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
The amount and mix of capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy.
Markets for semiconductors and displays depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for electronic products.
These conditions may also lead to consolidation or strategic alliances among other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect Applied’s ability to compete effectively.
Applied may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect Applied’s ability to capitalize on opportunities.


