fls.txt



item1.txt
Amounts as of October 29, 2017 are derived from the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements.
Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contain 52 weeks, and the first three months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 13 weeks.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Inventory Measurement.
This guidance does not apply to inventory that is measured using last-in, first out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method but applies to all other inventory including those measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or the average cost method.
Applied adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 prospectively to measurement of inventory after the effective date.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Share-Based Compensation.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, Applied recognized excess tax benefits of $51 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
The authoritative guidance expands the application of hedge accounting for non-financial and financial risk components and eases certain hedge effectiveness assessment requirements.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, with early adoption permitted.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In March 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which requires companies to present the service cost component of net benefit cost in the same line items in which they report compensation cost.
The other components of net benefit cost are required to be presented in the income statement separately from the service cost component and outside a subtotal of income from operations, if one is presented.


item2.txt
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contains 52 weeks, and the first three months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 13 weeks.
Display equipment spending reflected continued investment in new technology and manufacturing equipment.
The first quarter of fiscal 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of recent U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.94.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, net sales increased primarily due to increased customer investments in all segments, with majority of the increases resulting from investments in semiconductor equipment.
The Semiconductor Systems segment’s relative share of total net sales increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, and continued to represent the largest contributor of net sales.
The increase in net sales from customers in Korea, China, and Japan for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily reflected increased investments in semiconductor equipment and changes in semiconductor equipment customer mix.
The decrease in net sales from customers in Taiwan primarily reflected decreased investments in semiconductor equipment, partially offset by increased investments in display manufacturing equipment.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 12 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
The amount and mix of capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy.
Markets for semiconductors and displays depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for electronic products.
These conditions may also lead to consolidation or strategic alliances among other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect Applied’s ability to compete effectively.
Applied may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect Applied’s ability to capitalize on opportunities.


