fls.txt



item1.txt
Amounts as of October 28, 2018 are derived from the October 28, 2018 audited consolidated financial statements.
Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year.
Fiscal 2019 and 2018 contain 52 weeks each, and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contained 39 weeks.
All financial statements and disclosures have been recast to comply with this new guidance.
Applied adopted various amended guidance during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.
Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized.
Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product, current and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs.
If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applied’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required.
Applied also sells extended warranty contracts to its customers which provide an extension of the standard warranty coverage period of up to 2 years.
Applied recognizes revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which Applied expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Collectability is assessed based on the customer’s creditworthiness determined by reviewing the customer’s published credit and financial information, historical payment experience, as well as other relevant factors.
Judgment is used to determine whether multiple promised goods or services in a contract should be accounted for separately or as a group.
Applied includes variable consideration in the transaction price to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations.
A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation identified within the contract.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays.
Fiscal 2019 and 2018 contain 52 weeks each, and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contained 39 weeks.
Investment in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment and services continued to be the main driver of revenue during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment customers’ investments in new capacity and technology transitions decreased compared to the same period in the prior year.
Applied continued to see growth in demand for services and continued demand for spares from customers as compared to the same period in the prior year.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 14 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
The amount and mix of capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
•fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen, euro, Taiwanese dollar, Israeli shekel, Chinese yuan or Singapore dollar; •uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries, including for the manufacture and sale of semiconductors and displays in the developing economies of certain countries.
International trade disputes could result in increases in tariffs and other trade restrictions and protectionist measures that could have an adverse impact on our operations.


