fls.txt



item1.txt
Amounts as of July 29, 2018 are unaudited.
Amounts as of October 29, 2017 are derived from the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 (2017 Form 10-K).
Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contain 52 weeks, and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 39 weeks.
Inventory Measurement.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Share-Based Compensation.
In March 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including forfeitures, income tax, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
In the nine months ended July 29, 2018, Applied recognized an excess tax benefit of $51 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
The authoritative guidance expands the application of hedge accounting for non-financial and financial risk components and eases certain hedge effectiveness assessment requirements.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Goodwill Impairment.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a prospective basis, with early adoption permitted.


item2.txt
Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contains 52 weeks, and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 39 weeks.
Investment in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment and services continued to be a strong driver of revenue during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Semiconductor equipment customers continued to make investments in new capacity and overall semiconductor systems revenue increased as compared to the same period in the prior year.
Logic and dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) demand increased, and NAND demand remained strong reflecting increasing memory requirements in smartphones and servers.
Foundry customers’ spending decreased compared to the prior year and Applied continues to see these customers optimize existing capacity and re-prioritize their capital spending plans.
Display equipment spending reflected continued investment in new technology and manufacturing equipment.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 13 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
The amount and mix of capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy.
Markets for semiconductors and displays depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for electronic products.
These conditions may also lead to consolidation or strategic alliances among other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect Applied’s ability to compete effectively.


