fls.txt



item1.txt
Accordingly, the provision for income taxes in the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018 included excess tax benefits of $37.1 million and $50.2 million, respectively, that decreased the income tax provision.
Additionally, the Company has elected to apply the change in cash flow classification on a prospective basis.
In May 2014, the FASB released Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-9, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP.
The FASB issued subsequent amendments to the initial guidance in August 2015, March 2016, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016 within ASU 2015-14, ASU 2016-08, ASU 2016-10, ASU 2016-12 and ASU 2016-20, respectively.
The core principle of the standard is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The amendments provide clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes.
The amendment offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions.
Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The Company is required to adopt this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted.
The Lam Research Corporation 2015 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2015 Plan”), provides for the grant of non-qualified equity-based awards of the Company’s Common Stock to eligible employees and non-employee directors, including stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and market-based performance RSUs (“market-based PRSUs”).
An option is a right to purchase Common Stock at a set price.
The Company’s market-based PRSUs contain both a market condition and a service condition.
The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years.
The Company also has an employee stock purchase plan that allows employees to purchase its Common Stock at a discount through payroll deductions.
The fair value of the Company’s stock options granted during the nine months ended March 25, 2018 was estimated using a Black-Scholes options valuation model, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award.
Market-based PRSUs generally vest three years from the grant date if certain performance criteria are achieved and require continued employment.


item2.txt
We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines.
Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive devices, storage devices, and networking equipment.
Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers that make products such as non-volatile memory (“NVM”), DRAM memory, and logic devices.
We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success.
Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Moreover, we believe that a control system cannot be guaranteed to be 100% effective all of the time.


part2.txt
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
No priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry.
The changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities.
We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable.
We have $3.3 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding.


