The core principle of the standard is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after June 25, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under ASC 605.
Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenue from sales of systems when the Company determines that control has passed to the customer which is generally (1) for products that have been demonstrated to meet product specifications prior to shipment upon shipment or delivery; (2) for products that have not been demonstrated to meet product specifications prior to shipment, revenue is recognized upon completion of installation and receipt of customer acceptance; (3) for transactions where legal title does not pass upon shipment or delivery and the Company does not have a right to payment, revenue is recognized when legal title passes to the customer and the Company has a right to payment, which is generally at customer acceptance.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-01, “Financial Instruments – Overall – Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” The FASB issued a subsequent amendment to the initial guidance in February 2018 within ASU 2018-03.
The amendments provide clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes.
In August 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows – Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” The amendment provides and clarifies guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows to eliminate diversity in practice.
In October 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-16, “Income Tax – Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.” This standard update improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The adoption of this standard resulted in a $2.2 million increase to retained earnings, with a corresponding $2.2 million decrease to other comprehensive income.
The amendments are part of the SEC’s efforts to improve disclosure effectiveness and were focused on eliminating disclosure requirements that have become redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated, or superseded.
The Company adopted these amendments in the first quarter of fiscal Year 2019 and as a result the Company has included a Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity to this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us.
We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events.
We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines.Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
No priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry.