fls.txt



item1.txt
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2019 are presented under ASC 842, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under ASC 840.
The Company elected the package of practical expedients that allowed the Company not to reassess (i) whether any expired or existing contracts contain leases; (ii) the lease classification for any expired or existing leases; and (iii) initial direct lease costs for existing leases.
The Company did not elect to use hindsight in connection with the adoption of ASC 842.
The Company adopted ASC 842 by recording operating right-of-use assets of $110.8 million, net of deferred rent liabilities of $3.0 million that were reclassified to operating right-of-use assets, and operating lease liabilities of $113.8 million.
In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-18, "Collaborative Arrangements (Topic 808).” The amendment clarifies that certain transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement should be accounted for under Topic 606 when the counterparty is a customer for a good or service that is a distinct unit of account.
The amendment also precludes entities from presenting consideration from transactions with a collaborator that is not a customer together with revenue recognized from contracts with customers.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adoptions on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
If already adopted, the amendments of ASU 2016-01 and ASU 2016-13 are effective starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
Revenue of $198.0 million included in deferred revenue at June 30, 2019 was recognized during the three months ended September 29, 2019.
The Lam Research Corporation 2015 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2015 Plan”), provides for the grant of non-qualified equity-based awards of the Company’s Common Stock to eligible employees and non-employee directors, including stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and market-based performance RSUs (“market-based PRSUs”).
An option is a right to purchase Common Stock at a set price.
The Company’s market-based PRSUs contain both a market condition and a service condition.
The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years.
The Company recorded an income tax expense of $58.9 million for the three months ended September 29, 2019, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately 11.2%.
As of September 29, 2019, no significant adjustments have been proposed by the IRS.


item2.txt
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us.
We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events.
We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines.
Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive vehicles, and data storage devices.
Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers that make products such as non-volatile memory, DRAM, and logic devices.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Moreover, we believe that a control system cannot be guaranteed to be 100% effective all of the time.


part2.txt
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
No priority or significance is intended by, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers, accentuated by consolidation within the industry.
The changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities.
Especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes.
We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets identified in business combinations and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable.


