The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30.
In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
We currently anticipate utilizing the modified retrospective approach as our method of adoption.
The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients, with early adoption permitted.
Current guidance requires companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.
Product obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of purchase.
Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty.Our testing hardware and software solutions help customers accelerate and improve design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures.
Our high performance sensors provide controls for a variety of applications measuring acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure, force and sound.
As of September 30, 2017, we had 3,500 employees and revenue of $787,955 for fiscal year 2017.
We believe we can create value for our customers by helping to enhance the precision, improve the reliability and create superior safety for their products, while reducing the delivery time to market for their products.
We believe that our business model supports our growth objectives, provided that we continue to move aggressively to build our infrastructure, expand our offerings and execute on opportunities with our key customers around the world.
The discussion below quantifies the impact of foreign currency translation on our financial results for the periods discussed.These non-functional currency transactions expose us to market risk on assets, liabilities and cash flows recognized on these transactions.Item 1A.