item1.txt
Item 1.
Financial Statements The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Fiscal year 2019 ending on September 28, 2019 will consist of 52 weeks.
Fiscal year 2018 ended on September 29, 2018 consisted of 52 weeks.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments, on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
The impact on our Consolidated Statement of Income and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows is being evaluated.
The adoption of this guidance had no impact on our financial condition, results of operations or disclosures.
Revenue is recognized when obligations under the terms of the contract with our customer are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control upon product shipment (as evidenced by shipment or delivery terms) or with the performance of the service.
Contract liabilities represent payments received from customers at contract inception and at milestones per contract provisions.
inception.
There are no significant instances where variable consideration is constrained and not recorded at the initial time of sale.
The percentage applied reflects our historical warranty claims experience over the preceding 12-month period.
1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments.
Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate.
These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, unbilled accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.


item2.txt
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new revenue standard" or "ASC 606").
The following tables compare results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation, the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and restructuring costs incurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
2 The Acquisition column includes revenues and costs from the acquisition of E2M and costs incurred as part of the acquisition of E2M.
2 The Acquisition column includes revenues and costs from the acquisition of E2M and costs incurred as part of the acquisition of E2M.
The increase was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and the E2M acquisition, revenue increased 23.7% and 19.4%, respectively.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 8.9%.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 5.6%.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, selling and marketing expense increased 3.2% and 3.9%, respectively.


item3.txt
Item 3.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.
Risk Factors Our level and terms of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and take advantage of new business opportunities and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments.
As a result of these restrictions, we will be limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to capitalize on available business opportunities.


