item1.txt
Item 1.
Financial Statements The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Early adoption is permitted.
Assets held under capital leases, consisting of machinery and equipment, are recorded at the present value of minimum lease payments and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments.
See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
See Note 5 for additional information on goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment.
See Note 8 for additional information on debt instruments.
Commitment fees are payable on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility at rates between 0.25% and 0.40% based on our leverage ratio.
During the three and nine months ended July 1, 2017, commitment fees incurred totaled $106 and $320, respectively.
The weighted average fair value of the stock options granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 was $11.10 and $8.91, respectively.
The fair value of the restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 was $49.63 and $45.00, respectively, representing the market value of our shares at the date of grant less the present value of estimated foregone dividends over the vesting period.


item2.txt
As of September 30, 2017, we had 3,500 employees and revenue of $787,955 for fiscal year 2017.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 2.0%.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 4.2%.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 11.9%.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses, and current year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense increased 5.9%.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses, and current year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense increased 4.1%.
The decrease was partially offset by cost containment measures.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses, and current year restructuring costs, income from operations decreased 50.0%.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 10.7% and 10.3%, respectively.
Gross margin rate increased 0.7 percentage points primarily driven by favorable leverage on increased revenue volume, partially offset by the lower gross margin contribution from product mix.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, and prior year restructuring costs, gross profit increased 11.2% and the gross margin rate increased 0.2 percentage points.
Gross margin rate increased 4.4 percentage points primarily driven by the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment and favorable leverage on increased revenue volume, partially offset by the lower gross margin contribution from product mix.


item3.txt
Item 3.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.
We made no share purchases during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.


