The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No.
fiscal year 2020.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
Determination of when and how revenue is recognized is based on a five-step analysis.
Our Sensors segment (Sensors) manufactures and sells high-performance sensors which provide measurements of vibration, pressure, position, force and sound in a variety of applications.
Our Sensors contracts generally have a single performance obligation which is satisfied at a point in time.
The performance obligation is a stand-alone sensor product, accessory, service or software license.
Revenue is recognized when obligations under the terms of the contract with our customer are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control upon product shipment (as evidenced by shipment or delivery terms) or with the performance of the service.
For our Sensors contracts with customers, payment terms are generally within 90 days.MTS Systems Corporation's testing and simulation hardware, software and service solutions help customers accelerate and improve their design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures.
Our high-performance sensors provide measurements of vibration, pressure, position, force and sound in a variety of applications.
As of September 29, 2018, we had 3,400 employees and revenue of $778,032 for fiscal year 2018.
On November 21, 2018, we acquired E2M Technologies B.V. (E2M) for a cash purchase price of $79,772.
We funded the acquisition of E2M through borrowings on our Revolving Credit Facility.These non-functional currency transactions expose us to market risk on assets, liabilities and cash flows recognized on these transactions.