The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
The new standards and amendments may be adopted retrospectively for all periods presented, or adopted using a modified retrospective approach.
We currently anticipate utilizing the modified retrospective approach as our method of adoption.
This change may have a material impact on the timing of revenue recognition in our Test segment.
Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty.
The percentage applied reflects our historical warranty claims experience over the preceding 12-month period.
Both the experience percentage and the warranty liability are evaluated on an ongoing basis for adequacy.Our testing hardware and software solutions help customers accelerate and improve design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures.
Our high performance sensors provide controls for a variety of applications measuring acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure, force and sound.
As of September 30, 2017, we had 3,500 employees and revenue of $787,955 for fiscal year 2017.
We believe we can create value for our customers by helping to enhance the precision, improve the reliability and create superior safety for their products, while reducing the delivery time to market for their products.
We believe that our business model supports our growth objectives, provided that we continue to move aggressively to build our infrastructure, expand our offerings and execute on opportunities with our key customers around the world.
The discussion below quantifies the impact of foreign currency translation on our financial results for the periods discussed.These non-functional currency transactions expose us to market risk on assets, liabilities and cash flows recognized on these transactions.Item 1A.