ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
LSI INDUSTRIES INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
LSI INDUSTRIES INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
LSI INDUSTRIES INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
LSI INDUSTRIES INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
 LSI INDUSTRIES INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1 - INTERIM CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information, and rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
In the opinion of management, the interim financial statements include all normal adjustments and disclosures necessary to present fairly the Company’s financial position as of  September 30, 2018, the results of its operations for the three month periods ended  September 30, 2018 and 2017, and its cash flows for the three month periods ended  September 30, 2018 and 2017.
These statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and footnotes included in the fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Financial information as of  June 30, 2018 has been derived from the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements.
NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
A summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company’s fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Significant changes to our accounting policies as a result of adopting ASU-2014-09 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606) are discussed below.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies the performance obligation in its customer contracts or purchase orders.
Most of the Company’s products have a single performance obligation which is satisfied at a point in time when control is transferred to the customer.
Control is generally transferred at time of shipment when title and risk of ownership passes to the customer.
For customer contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price and any discounts to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices.
Payment terms are typically within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer.
The Company offers standard warranties that do not represent separate performance obligations.
Installation is a separate performance obligation, except for our digital signage products.
For digital signage products, installation is not a separate performance obligation as the product and installation is the combined item promised in digital signage contracts.
The Company is not always responsible for installation of products it sells and has no post-installation responsibilities other than standard warranties.
●
Customer specific printed graphic branding
●
Electrical components based on customer specifications
●
Digital signage and related media content
The Company also offers installation services.
Installation revenue is recognized over time as our customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided through the installation process.
Disaggregation of Revenue
The Company disaggregates the revenue from contracts with customers by the timing of revenue recognition because we believe it best depicts the nature, amount, and timing of our revenue and cash flows.
The table presents a reconciliation of the disaggregation by reportable segments.
New technology products include LED lighting and controls, electronic circuit boards, and digital signage solutions.
Legacy products include lighting fixtures utilizing light sources other than LED technology and printed two and three dimensional graphic products.
Turnkey services and other includes installation services along with shipping and handling charges.
Practical Expedients and Exemptions
●
The Company’s contracts with customers have an expected duration of one year or less, as such we apply the practical expedient to expense sales commissions as incurred, and have omitted disclosures on the amount of remaining performance obligations.
●
●
The Company collects sales tax and other taxes concurrent with revenue-producing activities and are excluded from revenue.
Shipping and handling costs are treated as fulfillment activities and included in cost of products and services sold on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
On  July 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09.
“Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective adoption method which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
This approach was applied to contracts that were not completed as of  June 30, 2018.
Results for reporting periods beginning  July 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for the prior period.
The Company recorded a net increase to beginning retained earnings of $591,000 on  July 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606, as described below.
In  February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” The amended guidance requires an entity to recognize assets and liabilities that arise from leases.
The amended guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods within those years, beginning after  December 15, 2018, or the Company’s fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the amended guidance will have on its financial statements.
The Company has evaluated subsequent events for potential recognition and disclosure through the date the consolidated financial statements were filed.
No items were identified during this evaluation that required adjustment to or disclosure in the accompanying financial statements other than noted below.
On  October 29, 2018, The Company announced that it will permanently close its New Windsor, New York manufacturing facility.
The facility manufactures indoor lighting products and is included in the results of the Lighting Segment.
Production will be transferred to the Company’s Erlanger, Kentucky and Blue Ash, Ohio facilities, also included in the Lighting Segment.
The New Windsor facility has a workforce of 140 employees.
On October 15, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed James A. Clark as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and President.
Mr. Clark entered into an Employment Agreement as of October 16, 2018 which provides that his employment with the Company shall begin on November 1, 2018.
The Employment Agreement also defines his compensation and benefit package.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation within the cash flows from operating activities section and cash flows from financing activities section of the statement of cash flows.
These reclassifications have no impact on net income or earnings per share.
NOTE 3 - SEGMENT REPORTING INFORMATION
The accounting guidance on Segment Reporting establishes standards for reporting information regarding operating segments in annual financial statements and requires selected information of those segments to be presented in financial statements.
Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise for which separate discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision maker (the Company’s Chief Executive Officer or “CODM”) in making decisions on how to allocate resources and assess performance.
The Company’s two operating segments are Lighting and Graphics, with one executive team under the new organizational structure reporting directly to the CODM with responsibilities for managing each segment.
Corporate and Eliminations, which captures the Company’s corporate administrative activities, is also reported in the segment information.
Segment also includes the design, engineering, and manufacturing of electronic circuit boards, assemblies and sub-assemblies used to manufacture certain LED light fixtures and sold directly to customers.
The Company’s corporate administration activities are reported in the Corporate and Eliminations line item.
These activities primarily include intercompany profit in inventory eliminations, expense related to certain corporate officers and support staff, the Company’s internal audit staff, expense related to the Company’s Board of Directors, equity compensation expense for various equity awards granted to corporate administration employees, certain consulting expenses, investor relations activities, and a portion of the Company’s legal, auditing and professional fee expenses.
Corporate identifiable assets primarily consist of cash, invested cash (if any), refundable income taxes (if any), and deferred income taxes.
There was no concentration of consolidated net sales in the three months ended  September 30, 2018 or 2017.
There was no concentration of accounts receivable at  September 30, 2018 or  June 30, 2018.
The segment net sales reported above represent sales to external customers.
Segment operating income, which is used in management’s evaluation of segment performance, represents net sales less all operating expenses.
Identifiable assets are those assets used by each segment in its operations.
The Company’s operations are located solely within the United States.
As a result, the geographic distribution of the Company’s net sales and long-lived assets originate within the United States.
NOTE 4 - EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
    (a)   Includes shares accounted for like treasury stock.
    (b)   Calculated using the “Treasury Stock” method as if dilutive securities were exercised and the funds were used to purchase common shares at the average market price during the period.
NOTE 5 - INVENTORIES
NOTE 6 - ACCRUED EXPENSES
NOTE 7 - GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are reviewed at least annually for possible impairment.
The Company  may first assess qualitative factors in order to determine if goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired.
If through the qualitative assessment it is determined that it is more likely than not that goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not impaired, no further testing is required.
If it is determined more likely than not that goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are impaired, or if the Company elects not to first assess qualitative factors, the Company’s impairment testing continues with the estimation of the fair value of the reporting unit using a combination of a market approach and an income (discounted cash flow) approach, at the reporting unit level.
The estimation of the fair value of reporting unit requires significant management judgment with respect to revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital and the selection and use of an appropriate discount rate.
The estimates of the fair value of reporting units are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment.
The use of different assumptions would increase or decrease estimated discounted future operating cash flows and could increase or decrease an impairment charge.
Company management uses its judgment in assessing whether assets  may have become impaired between annual impairment tests.
Indicators such as adverse business conditions, economic factors and technological change or competitive activities  may signal that an asset has become impaired.
The Company identified its reporting units in conjunction with its annual goodwill impairment testing.
The Company has a total of three reporting units that contain goodwill.
There are two reporting units within the Lighting Segment and one reporting unit within the Graphics Segment.
The Company relies upon a number of factors, judgments and estimates when conducting its impairment testing including, but not limited to, the Company’s stock price, operating results, forecasts, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data.
There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and judgments in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment.
NOTE 8 - REVOLVING LINE OF CREDIT
In  February 2017, the Company amended its secured line of credit to a $100 million facility.
The line of credit expires in the third quarter of fiscal 2022.
Interest on the revolving line of credit is charged based upon an increment over the LIBOR rate as periodically determined, or at the bank’s base lending rate, at the Company’s option.
The increment over the LIBOR borrowing rate, as periodically determined, fluctuates between 125 and 250 basis points depending upon the ratio of indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), as defined in the line of credit agreement.
The increment over LIBOR borrowing rate will remain at 175 basis points for the next twelve months.
The fee on the unused balance of the $100 million committed line of credit is 20 basis points.
Under the terms of this line of credit, the Company has agreed to a negative pledge of real estate assets and is required to comply with financial covenants that limit the ratio of indebtedness to EBITDA and require a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio.
As of  September 30, 2018, there was $46.2 million borrowed against the line of credit, and $53.8 million was available as of that date.
Based on the terms of the line of credit and the maturity date, the debt has been classified as long term.
The Company is in compliance with all of its loan covenants as of  September 30, 2018.
NOTE 9 - CASH DIVIDENDS
The Company paid cash dividends of $1,296,000 and $1,286,000 in the three months ended  September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Dividends on restricted stock units in the amount of $31,553 and $29,106 were accrued as of  September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
These dividends will be paid upon the vesting of the restricted stock units when shares are issued to the award recipients.
In  November 2018, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share payable  November 27, 2018 to shareholders of record as of  November 16, 2018.
The indicated annual cash dividend rate is $0.20 per share.
NOTE 10 - EQUITY COMPENSATION
The Company’s equity compensation plan, the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan (“the 2012 Plan”), was approved by shareholders in  November 2012.
The 2012 Plan covers all of the Company’s full-time employees, outside directors and certain advisors and replaced all previous equity compensation plans.
In  November 2016, the Company’s shareholders approved an amendment to the 2012 Plan that added 1,600,000 shares to the plan and implemented the use of a fungible share ratio that consumes 2.5 available shares for every full value share awarded by the Company as stock compensation.
The 2012 Plan allows for the grant of incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted and unrestricted stock awards, performance stock units, and other stock-based awards.
Stock option grants or stock awards made pursuant to the 2012 Plan are granted at fair market value at the date of option grant or stock award.
Stock option grants may be service-based or performance-based.
Service-based options granted during fiscal year 2017 and prior fiscal years generally have a four year ratable vesting period beginning one year after the date of grant.
Service-based options granted during fiscal year 2018 have a three year ratable vesting period beginning one year after the date of grant.
The maximum exercise period of stock options granted under the 2012 Plan is ten years.
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) granted prior to fiscal year 2018 have a four year ratable vesting period.
RSUs granted during fiscal year 2018 have a three year ratable vesting period.
The RSUs are non-voting, but accrue cash dividends at the same per share rate as those cash dividends declared and paid on LSI’s common stock.
If a stock option or RSU holder’s employment with the Company terminates by reason of death, disability or retirement, as defined in the Plan, the Plan generally provides for acceleration of vesting.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company granted Performance Stock Units (PSUs).
PSUs are full value awards and consume the pool of available shares at the fungible rate of 2.5 for every full share awarded.
The vesting of the PSUs is subject to the achievement of Return on Net Assets (RONA) and EBITDA objectives over a three year performance cycle.
If certain one year performance objectives are met, one-third of the PSU’s will vest and be released.
If the one year performance objectives are not met, the entire PSU awards may be earned over the remaining three-year performance cycle.
The Company has a non-qualified deferred compensation plan providing for both Company contributions and participant deferrals of compensation.
This plan is fully funded in a Rabbi Trust.
All plan investments are in shares of common stock of the Company.
The Company also awards its directors shares of common stock as part of their compensation.
Stock compensation awards are made in the form of newly issued common shares of the Company.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company granted 422,900 serviced-based stock options with an exercise price of $4.94 and 134,350 PSUs at a fair value of $4.94.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company granted 724,037 service-based and performance-based stock options with an exercise price of $5.92 and 91,490 Restricted Stock Units with a fair value of $5.92.
Stock compensation expense was $551,000 and $984,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
NOTE 11 - SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION
NOTE 12 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
The Company is party to various negotiations, customer bankruptcies, and legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business.
The Company provides reserves for these matters when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable.
The Company does not disclose a range of potential loss because the likelihood of such a loss is remote.
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity.
The Company  may occasionally issue a standby letter of credit in favor of third parties.
As of  September 30, 2018, there were no such standby letters of credit issued.
NOTE 13 – SEVERANCE COSTS
On  April 23, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors announced the appointment of an interim Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Operating Officer in connection with the departure of Dennis Wells, the Company’s former CEO.
The $1,772,000 severance liability reported as of  June 30, 2018 represents the severance benefits Mr. Wells is entitled to receive under his employment agreement.
Of the total $1,575,000 reported as of  September 30, 2018, $590,000 has been classified as a current liability and will be paid out over the next twelve months.
The remaining $985,000 has been classified as a long-term liability.
NOTE 14 – RESTRUCTURING COSTS
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, management approved the closure of its 12,000 square foot leased facility in Hawthorne, California.
The facility was used as a warehouse and for light assembly of light fixtures.
The Company will move the light assembly to its Blue Ash, Ohio facility.
The restructuring charges consist primarily of transportation costs to move inventory to Blue Ash, the impairment of equipment, costs to restore the leased facility, and severance benefits.
The Company also incurred $435,000 related to the write-down of inventory which is not included in the table below.
All restructuring costs are reported in cost of sales in the Lighting Segment.
NOTE 15 – INCOME TAXES
The Company's effective income tax rate is based on expected income, statutory rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which it operates.
For interim financial reporting, the Company estimates the annual income tax rate based on projected taxable income for the full year and records a quarterly income tax provision or benefit in accordance with the anticipated annual rate.
The Company refines the estimates of the year's taxable income as new information becomes available, including actual year-to-date financial results.
This continual estimation process often results in a change to the expected effective income tax rate for the year.
When this occurs, the Company adjusts the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs so that the year-to-date provision reflects the expected income tax rate.
Significant judgment is required in determining the effective tax rate and in evaluating tax positions.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, a deferred tax asset of $10.7 million was created as a result of the impairment of goodwill in the Lighting reporting unit.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) was signed into law in  December 2017 and makes numerous changes to the Internal Revenue Code.
Among other changes, the Act reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% effective  January 1, 2018.
Because the Act became effective mid-way through the Company’s fiscal 2018 tax year, the Company had a U.S. statutory income tax rate of 34% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, before the new tax law was enacted, and will have a 21% U.S statutory income tax rate for fiscal years 2019 and after.
