fls.txt
Although we believe that the goals, plans, expectations, and prospects that our forward-looking statements reflect are reasonable in view of the information currently available to us, those statements are not guarantees of performance.


item1.txt
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of our management, these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at October 31, 2019, results of operations for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018.
The Company’s results for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
Under the new guidance, a lessee is required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.
Consistent under previous guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease.
However, unlike previous guidance, which required only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new standard requires both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet.
The Company adopted ASC 842 on May 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective method and utilized the optional transition method under which the Company continues to apply the legacy guidance in ASC 840, Leases, including its disclosure requirements, in the comparative period presented.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of operating lease ROU assets of approximately $2.7 million, current operating lease liabilities of approximately $0.7 million and long-term operating lease liabilities of approximately $2.1 million as of May 1, 2019.
The adoption had no impact on retained deficit, the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, or the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.
The customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no right to take delivery of the software without incurring a significant penalty.
The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer.
We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed.


item2.txt
Growth is projected to pick up to 3.4 percent in 2020 (a 0.2 percentage point downward revision compared with April), reflecting primarily a projected improvement in economic performance in a number of emerging markets in Latin America, the Middle East, and emerging and developing Europe that are under macroeconomic strain.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
Our cost of revenue for licenses and subscriptions includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
More specifically, in any acquisition we will face risks and challenges associated with the uncertain value of the acquired business or assets, the difficulty of assimilating operations and personnel, integrating acquired technologies and products and maintaining the loyalty of the customers of the acquired business.
For the three months ended October 31, 2019 compared to October 31, 2018 revenues remained relatively flat attributable primarily to a 64% increase in subscription fees that were partially offset by a 48% decrease in license revenues, a 7% decrease in maintenance revenues and a 2% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
For the six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to October 31, 2018 revenues remained flat attributable primarily to a 53% increase in subscription fees that were partially offset by a 24% decrease in license revenues, a 6% decrease in maintenance revenues and a 5% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
Numerous factors contribute to the amount of the discount provided, such as previous customer purchases, the number of customer sites utilizing the software, the number of modules purchased and the number of users, as well as the overall size of the contract.
International revenues represented approximately 19% and 21% of total revenues in the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, compared to 20% for the same periods in the prior year.
In the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, license fee revenues from our SCM segment decreased 47% and 24%, respectively, when compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year due to our transition of new and existing business into the cloud subscription model compared to the historical on premise software model.


item3.txt
In the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, we generated approximately 19% and 21% of our revenues outside the United States.
We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $0.1 million and $0.2 million for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to an exchange rate loss of approximately $0.1 million and $0.4 million for the same periods in the prior year.


item4.txt
Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings Item 1A.Risk Factors None.


