fls.txt
Although we believe that the goals, plans, expectations, and prospects that our forward-looking statements reflect are reasonable in view of the information currently available to us, those statements are not guarantees of performance.


item1.txt
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at January 31, 2019, results of operations for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018.
The Company’s results for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. (“American Software”) and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”).
In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit, which the Company has determined to be six years, which will have an impact of $1.1 million.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet will be an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase in contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, which established new ASC Topic 842 (ASC 842), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.
Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease.
However, unlike current GAAP, which requires only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new standard will require both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.
The customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no right to take delivery of the software without incurring a significant penalty.


item2.txt
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
The SCM segment also includes (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
More specifically, in any acquisition we will face risks and challenges associated with the uncertain value of the acquired business or assets, the difficulty of assimilating operations and personnel, integrating acquired technologies and products and maintaining the loyalty of the customers of the acquired business.
For the three months ended January 31, 2019, the 10% decrease in revenues over the three months ended January 31, 2018 was attributable primarily to a 71% decrease in license revenues and to a lesser extent a 2% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
This decrease was partially offset by a 43% increase in subscription fees revenues and to a lesser extent a 2% increase in maintenance revenues.
This decrease was partially offset by a 63% increase in subscription fees revenues, and to a lesser extent a 5% increase in maintenance revenues and a 1% increase in professional services revenues.
Numerous factors contribute to the amount of the discount provided, such as previous customer purchases, the number of customer sites utilizing the software, the number of modules purchased and the number of users, as well as the overall size of the contract.
International revenues represented approximately 17% and 19% of total revenues in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively and 20% of total revenues in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, license fee revenues decreased 71% and 56%, respectively, when compared to the same period in the prior year.


item3.txt
In each of the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, we generated approximately 17% and 19% of our revenues, respectively, outside the United States.
We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $21,000 and of $375,000 for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively, compared to an exchange rate gain of approximately $75,000 for both the three months and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively.


item4.txt
Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings Item 1A.Risk Factors Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information None.


