fls.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries Basic per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B Common Shares.
Diluted earnings per share for Class B Common Shares under the two-class method are $0.05 and $0.09 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at July 31, 2018, results of operations for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017 and cash flows for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (“American Software” or the “Company”).
The Company’s total revenue impact is $1.2 million, with approximately 70% impacting the fiscal year ending April 30, 2019, which is the result of recognizing revenue for the license component of its term licenses and certain perpetual license contracts that were previously recognized over time due to the lack of vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit which the Company has determined to be six years, which has an impact of $1.1 million.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet is expected to be an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase to contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
The Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and software-as-a-service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer.
We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed.
Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.


item2.txt
In July 2018, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) provided an update to the World Economic Outlook (“WEO”) for the 2018 and 2019 world economic growth forecast.
The update noted that, “Global growth is projected to reach 3.9 percent in 2018 and 2019, in line with the forecast of the April 2018 World Economic Outlook (WEO), but the expansion is becoming less even, and risks to the outlook are mounting.
Growth projections have been revised down for Argentina, Brazil, and India, while the outlook for some oil exporters has strengthened.” For fiscal 2019, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
Recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI), as well as (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
More specifically, in any acquisition we will face risks and challenges associated with the uncertain value of the acquired business or assets, the difficulty of assimilating operations and personnel, integrating acquired technologies and products and maintaining the loyalty of the customers of the acquired business.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, the 2% increase in revenues over the three months ended July 31, 2017 was attributable primarily to a 96% increase in subscription fees revenues, and to a lesser extent a 6% increase in professional services and maintenance revenues, respectively when compared to the same period last year.


item3.txt
In the three months ended July 31, 2018, we generated approximately 20% of our revenues outside the United States.
We recorded an exchange rate loss of approximately $247,000 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 compared to an exchange rate gain of $41,000 for the same period in the prior year.


item4.txt
Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.


part2.txt
Item 1.


