fls.txt
Some of the risk factors that affect our business and financial results are discussed within this document and in Part I, “Item 1A: Risk Factors” on pages 8 through 20 of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, in Part II, “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” on page 37 of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2017 and in our other SEC filings available for free on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on Motorola Solutions' website at www.motorolasolutions.com.
We wish to caution the reader that the risk factors discussed in each of these documents and those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations.
However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.


item2.txt
We adopted ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers", and all the related amendments (collectively “ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to our opening retained earnings.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect in those periods.
The impact from adoption increased Net sales by $15 million.
We serve our customers with a global footprint of sales in more than 100 countries and 17,000 employees worldwide, based on our industry leading innovation and a deep portfolio of products and services.
Gross margin was $669 million, or 45.6% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2018, compared to $570 million, or 44.5% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2017.
Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $11 million in the first quarter of 2018 compared to net gains of $3 million in the first quarter of 2017.
The net gains in the first quarter of 2018 and 2017 were related to sales of various equity investments.
Net Earnings Attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. After taxes, we had net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $117 million, or $0.69 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2018, compared to net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $77 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2017.
For both the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, the segment’s net sales represented 55% of our consolidated net sales.
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 76% of the segment’s net sales in the first quarter of 2018, compared to 75% of the segment's net sales in the first quarter of 2017.
For both the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, the segment’s net sales represented 45% of our consolidated net sales.
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 59% of the segment’s net sales in the first quarter of 2018, compared to 58% of the segment’s net sales in the first quarter of 2017.
Cash payments for employee severance and exit costs in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $15 million in the first quarter of 2018 and $30 million in the first quarter of 2017.
The reorganization of business accruals at March 31, 2018 were $48 million, of which $39 million relate to employee separation costs that are expected to be paid within one year and $9 million of accruals related primarily to lease termination obligations that are expected to be paid over a number of years.
Restricted cash was $63 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
In February of 2018, we issued $500 million of 4.60% Senior notes due 2028.
After debt issuance costs and debt discounts, we recognized net proceeds of $497 million.
The notes are convertible based on a conversion rate of 14.7476, as may be adjusted for dividends declared, per $1,000 principal amount (which is currently equal to a conversion price of $67.81 per share).
At March 31, 2018, the Company had retained servicing obligations for $848 million of long-term receivables, compared to $873 million at December 31, 2017.
Servicing obligations are limited to collection activities related to the sales of accounts receivables and long-term receivables.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, "Leases," which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The ASU prescribes the use of a modified retrospective method upon adoption, which requires all prior periods presented in the financial statements to be restated, with a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the earliest period presented.
We have begun to assess the impact of the ASU on our financial statements and expect a material impact to our balance sheet through the recording of right-of-use assets and lease obligations that were not required to be recorded within the balance sheet under current accounting standards.
We adopted ASU No. 2017-07, “Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715) - Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost” on January 1, 2018 using the retrospective method of adoption.
The amendments in the ASU require that an employer disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net periodic cost (benefit) and report that component in the same line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by employees during the period.
The other components of net periodic cost (benefit) are required to be presented in the statement of operations separately from the service cost component and outside of operating earnings.
We have restated our comparative period results to reflect the application of the presentation guidance of the ASU.
As a result of the ASU, the presentation of net periodic cost (benefit) has been updated to classify all components of our net periodic benefit, with the exception of the service cost component, within Other in Other income (expense) on the statement of operations.
We adopted ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers", and all the related amendments (collectively “ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to our opening retained earnings.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect in those periods.
Under the new standard, revenue recognition for software sales is accelerated based on when control of software licenses and related support services are transferred to the customer.
Historically, we presented transactions that involved a third-party sales representative on a net basis.
After considering the control concept and the remaining three indicators of gross presentation under the new standard, we have determined that we are the principal in contracts that involve a third-party sales representative.
The new standard clarified the definition of a receivable and requires us to present our net position in a contract with a customer on the balance sheet.
The position is presented as either a receivable, contract asset, or a contract liability.
Under the new definition, accounts receivable are unconditional rights to consideration from a customer.
Contract assets represent rights to consideration from a customer in exchange for transferred goods and services that are conditional on events other than the passage of time.
Contract liabilities represent obligations to transfer goods and services for which we have received, or is due, consideration from a customer respectively.
We reclassified our customer positions to align with the new definitions and presentation guidance.
Accordingly, Unbilled accounts receivable and Costs and earnings in excess of billings have been reclassified from Accounts receivable and Other current assets, respectively, and are presented as Contract assets.
Accounts receivable which are not due from customers have been reclassified into Other current assets.
Deferred revenue, Billings in excess of costs and earnings, and Customer downpayments have been reclassified from Accrued liabilities and are presented as Contract liabilities.


item3.txt
Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
As of March 31, 2018, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $643 million, compared to $507 million outstanding as of December 31, 2017.
Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 6.
Exhibits


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
Item 1A.
Risk Factors
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


