fls.txt



item1.txt
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries As of December 31, 2018 there were 200,000 shares totaling $8.8 million of share repurchases that were not settled until January 2019.
The March 31, 2019 balance primarily consists of $21.3 million funds in an escrow account to acquire the remaining 25.16% publicly-held Weizmann Forex shares pending the lapse of a time bound public offer.
Additionally in connection with a 2016 acquisition, there is upfront cash consideration and possible future contingent earn-out payments held in an escrow account contingent upon the acquired business achieving the minimum specified annual net revenue thresholds, which if not achieved would result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition—The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for risk compliance solution services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
For arrangements that include multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates consideration based on their relative fair values.These types of arrangements include obligations pertaining to software licenses, system set-up, and professional services associated with product customization or modification.
Accounts Receivable and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts—Reported accounts receivable include $131.2 million of trade receivables stated at invoice billed amounts and $31.0 million of unbilled receivables (net of the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts receivable in the amount of $6.6 million).
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, $484 thousand and $40 thousand, respectively, of accounts receivable, which had been specifically reserved for in prior periods, were written off.
In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance, goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurred or circumstances change that would indicate that fair value of a reporting unit decreased below its carrying value.
The aforementioned two-step quantitative testing process involves comparing the reporting unit carrying values to their respective fair values; we determine fair value of our reporting units by applying the discounted cash flow method using the present value of future estimated net cash flows.
However, if a reporting unit’s fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeded its implied value.
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and the year ended December 31, 2018 are reflected in the following table.
Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses that are derived from transactions denominated in a currency other than the subsidiary's functional currency are included in the determination of net income.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within that fiscal year.
The Company has yet to assess the impact that the adoption of this ASU will have on Ebix's consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year.


item2.txt
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 our total operating revenues increased $34.7 million or 32%, to $142.9 million as compared to $108.2 million during the first quarter of 2018.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the growth in the EbixCash segment as well as the acquisitions made by Ebix in the last twelve months.
Specifically, the adverse impact from fluctuations of the exchange rates for the foreign currencies in the countries in which we conduct operations, in the aggregate reduced reported revenues by $(5.0) million for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2019 and 2018 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3, combined revenues decreased 7.2% for the three months ending March 31, 2019, respectively, versus the same periods in 2018.
•2019 and 2018 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
During the first three months of 2019, the United States' revenues decreased $3.8 million primarily due to a combination of decreased professional services and a decrease of third party administrator services.
Latin America's revenues decreased by $1.4 million primarily due to decreased professional services combined with a $646 thousand decrease due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.


item3.txt
Such an adverse change in currency exchange rates would have resulted in reduction to pre-tax income of approximately $6.9 million and $3.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
On February 10, 2015, defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the Second Amended Complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part in a Memorandum Opinion and Order issued on January 15, 2016.


