fls.txt



item1.txt
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries As of December 31, 2018 there were 200,000 shares totaling $8.8 million of share repurchases that were not settled until January 2019.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 there were 662 shares, totaling $36 thousand, used to satisfy exercise costs and the recipients' income tax obligations related to stock options exercised and restricted stock vesting.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Description of Business— Ebix, Inc., and its subsidiaries, (“Ebix” or the “Company”) is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also providing software-as-a-service ("SaaS") enterprise solutions in the area of customer relationship management ("CRM"), front-end and back-end systems, and outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines physical distribution outlets in many Association of Southwest Asian Nations ("ASEAN") countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio of services encompasses dominance in the areas of domestic and international money remittance, foreign exchange ("Forex"), travel, pre-paid gift cards, utility payments, lending, and wealth management in India and other Asian markets.
Restricted Cash - The carrying value of our restricted cash in current assets was $18.2 million and $8.3 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The September 30, 2019 balance consists of upfront cash consideration and possible future contingent earn-out payments held in an escrow account in connection with a 2016 business acquisition.
Advertising—Advertising costs amounted to $2.0 million and $2.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $7.6 million and $6.2 million in the nine months ended 2019 and 2018, respectively.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
A financial instrument's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3. and determination of the fair value of contingent earn-out liabilities for purchased businesses.
Revenue Recognition—The Company derives its revenues primarily from software subscription and transaction fees, software license fees, financial transaction fees, risk compliance solution services fees, and professional service fees including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
EbixCash acts as the principal in transactions and reports revenue on a gross basis, as EbixCash controls the service at all times prior to transfer to the customer, is primarily responsible for fulfilling the customer contracts, has the risk of loss, and has the ability to establish transaction prices.
In the majority of EbixCash’s foreign exchange and payment services, EbixCash makes payments to the recipient to satisfy its performance obligation to the customer, and therefore, EbixCash recognizes revenue on foreign exchange and payment services when this performance obligation has been fulfilled.


item2.txt
As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also providing software-as-a-service ("SaaS") enterprise solutions in the area of customer relationship management ("CRM"), front-end and back-end systems, outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines physical distribution outlets in many Association of Southwest Asian Nations ("ASEAN") countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio of services encompasses dominance in the areas of domestic and international money remittance, foreign exchange ("Forex"), travel, pre-paid gift cards, utility payments, lending, and wealth management in India and other Asian markets.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our application service provider "ASP" platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
In the table above for the three months ending September 30, 2019 and 2018 respectfully, there is $3.8 million, and $2.1 million of Insurance Exchange revenues derived in India that are being reported within the EbixCash Exchange channel only above.
Similarly, for the nine months ending September 30, 2019 and 2018 respectfully, there is $13.1 million, and $2.1 million of Insurance Exchange revenues derived in India that are being reported within the EbixCash Exchange channel only above.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 our total operating revenues increased $18.6 million or 14%, to $147.2 million as compared to $128.6 million during the third quarter of 2018.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the growth in the EbixCash segment as well as the acquisitions in the travel, foreign exchange, and software solutions sectors during the last twelve months offset by reductions in revenues from the insurance consulting business, EbixHealth JV, and e-governance service contracts executed within the Ebix Vayam Limited JV for Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited "BSNL" (a leading public sector undertaking in the telecommunication sector in India).
Specifically, the adverse impact from fluctuations of the exchange rates for the foreign currencies in the countries in which we conduct operations, in the aggregate, reduced reported revenues by $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2019 and 2018 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3, combined revenues increased 5.2% for the three months ending September 30, 2019 versus the same periods in 2018.
The 2019 and 2018 pro forma financial information assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2018, whereas the Company's reported condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended September 30, 2019 only includes the revenues from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired or consolidated by Ebix, being February 2018 for Transcorp, April 2018 for Centrum, April 2018 for Smartclass, July 2018 for Indus, July 2018 for Mercury, July 2018 for Leisure, August 2018 for Miles, October 2018 for Routier, October 2018 for Business Travels, October 2018 for Aha Taxis, December 2018 for Pearl, Weizmann, January 2019 for Zillious, January 2019 for Essel and August 2019 for Wallstreet Canada.


item3.txt
Such an adverse change in currency exchange rates would have resulted in reduction to pre-tax income of approximately $12.4 million and $11.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt



