For the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, HP incurred $2 million and $13 million of other charges, respectively.
•Graphics Solutions delivers large-format, commercial and industrial solutions to print service providers and packaging converters through a wide portfolio of printers and presses (HP DesignJet, HP Latex, HP Scitex, HP Indigo and HP PageWide Web Presses).
The reclassification resulted in an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses and a reduction in interest and other, net of $60 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018.
This acquisition furthers HP’s plan to disrupt the A3 copier market and builds on its printing strategy to enhance its A3 and A4 product portfolio; build differentiated solutions and tools to expand its MPS; and invest in its direct and indirect go-to-market capabilities.
•Commercial PCs are optimized for use by customers, including enterprise, public sector and SMB customers, with a focus on robust designs, security, serviceability, connectivity, reliability and manageability in networked and cloud-based environments.
HP’s effective tax rate was 10.8% and (114.1)% for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Loss on interest rate swap agreements recognized in earnings was $12 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and $40 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018.
It also includes some Samsung-branded and OEM hardware, and solutions.
Described below are HP’s global business capabilities within Printing.
•Office Printing Solutions delivers HP’s office printers, services and solutions to SMBs and large enterprises.
• Other consists of Consumer and Commercial services as well as other Personal Systems capabilities.The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher ASPs, partially offset by an increase in commodity and logistics costs.
Net revenue decreased 3.3% in Desktops and increased 5.8% in Notebooks and 3.5% in Workstations as compared to the prior-year period.
Consumer and Commercial revenue increased 1.3% and 2.8%, respectively, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, primarily as a result of higher ASPs.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 5.5% increase in ASPs, partially offset by a 3.0% decrease in unit volume, as compared to the prior-year period.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.5 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to decrease in operating expenses, partially offset by decline in gross margin.Risk Factors.
In addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer.