Personal Systems groups its global business capabilities into Notebooks, Desktops, Workstations and Other when reporting business performance.
HP’s effective tax rate was 13.6% and 22.5% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and (93.2%) and 23.1% for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, HP incurred $25 million and $78 million of other charges, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, HP incurred $12 million and $36 million of other charges, respectively.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, HP recorded net tax benefits of $12 million related to acquisition costs offset by other charges of $5 million.
•Graphics Solutions delivers large-format, commercial and industrial solutions to print service providers and packaging converters through the largest portfolio of printers and presses (HP DesignJet, HP Latex, HP Scitex, HP Indigo and HP PageWide Web Presses).
•Commercial PCs are optimized for use by customers, including enterprise and SMBs, with a focus on robust designs, security, serviceability, connectivity, reliability and manageability in networked environments.
•Consumer PCs are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on multi-media consumption, online browsing, gaming and light productivity.
With this acquisition, HP now offers the industry’s strongest portfolio of A3 multifunction printers that deliver the simplicity of printers with the high performance of copiers.
Additionally, HP offers a range of services and solutions to enterprise and SMBs to help them manage the lifecycle of their PC and mobility installed base.
These amounts included a tax benefit of $14 million and $45 million related to restructuring and other charges, and a tax benefit of $15 million and $28 million related to acquisition-related charges, offset by uncertain tax position charges of $19 million and $25 million, for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, respectively.
On November 1, 2017, HP completed the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.For the three months ended July 31, 2018, our gross margin decreased by 0.2 percentage points as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher ASPs, partially offset by an increase in logistics and commodity costs.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.2 percentage points for the three months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in gross margin partially offset by an increase in operating expenses.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.1 percentage points for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in gross margin, driven by higher ASPs partially offset by an increase in logistics and commodity costs.
Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.
Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and our customers.