Personal Systems groups its global business capabilities into Notebooks, Desktops, Workstations and Other when reporting business performance.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, HP incurred $22 million and $53 million of other charges, respectively.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, HP incurred $11 million and $24 million of other charges, respectively.
•Graphics Solutions delivers large-format, commercial and industrial solutions to print service providers and packaging converters through the largest portfolio of printers and presses (HP DesignJet, HP Latex, HP Scitex, HP Indigo and HP PageWide Web Presses).
•Commercial PCs are optimized for use by customers, including enterprise and SMBs, with a focus on robust designs, security, serviceability, connectivity, reliability and manageability in networked environments.
The three months ended April 30, 2017 also included various other tax charges of $8 million.
These tax benefits were offset by uncertain tax position charges of $8 million and $51 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively.
•Home Printing Solutions delivers innovative printing products and solutions for the home and home business or small office customers utilizing both HP’s Ink and Laser technologies.
•Consumer PCs are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on multi-media consumption, online browsing, gaming and light productivity.
With this acquisition, HP now offers the industry’s strongest portfolio of A3 multifunction printers that deliver the simplicity of printers with the high performance of copiers.
HP’s effective tax rate was (1,162%) and 25.9% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and (203%) and 23.5% for the six months ended April 30, 2018 and April 30, 2017, respectively.
Additionally, HP offers a range of services and solutions to enterprise and SMBs to help them manage the lifecycle of their PC and mobility installed base.For the three months ended April 30, 2018, our gross margin increased 0.1 percentage points as compared to the prior-year period.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 0.8 percentage points for the six months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period primarily due to an increase in operating expenses, partially offset by improved gross margin.
The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher ASPs partially offset by an increase in logistics and commodity costs.
Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.
Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.
Consumer revenue increased 10.5% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs.Item 1.