fls.txt



item1.txt
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. The Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows for the periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2019, are not audited but reflect all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature and are necessary for a fair statement of the results of the periods shown.
Lease assets represent our right to use underlying assets for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligations to make lease payments over the lease term.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 6 million and 4 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, and 7 million and 4 million shares outstanding during the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of September 30, 2019.
Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value.


item2.txt
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Our third quarter revenue was $3.77 billion, net income was $1.43 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.49.
Revenue decreased 11% from the same quarter a year ago, as most markets weakened further.
In our core businesses, Analog revenue declined 8% and Embedded Processing declined 19% from the same quarter a year ago.
Our cash flow from operations of $7.0 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was $6.0 billion and 41% of revenue.
We have returned $7.4 billion to shareholders in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends.
Over the last 12 months, our dividends represented 48% of free cash flow, underscoring their sustainability.
Together, our stock repurchases and dividends reflect our continued commitment to return all free cash flow to our shareholders.
For an explanation of free cash flow and the term “annual operating tax rate,” see the Non-GAAP financial information section.
Revenue of $3.77 billion decreased $490 million, or 11%, primarily due to lower revenue from Analog and Embedded Processing.
Gross profit of $2.45 billion was down $358 million, or 13%, due to lower revenue.
Operating profit was $1.59 billion, or 42.1% of revenue, compared with $1.94 billion, or 45.5% of revenue.


part2.txt
3(b)By-Laws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 12, 2016).
4(a)Officer's Certificate, dated September 4, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 4, 2019).
31(b)Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Periodic Report Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).†


