item1.txt
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination.
The revenue information is not necessarily indicative of the geographic area in which the end applications containing our products are ultimately consumed because our products tend to be shipped to the locations where our customers manufacture their products.
Revenue from products shipped into China, including Hong Kong, was $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion in the third quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $5.3 billion and $4.9 billion in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
The Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows for the periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018, are not audited but reflect all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature and are necessary for a fair statement of the results of the periods shown.
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Because the consolidated interim financial statements do not include all of the information and notes required by GAAP for a complete set of financial statements, they should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Revenue from sales of our products that is subject to inventory consignment agreements is recognized at a point in time, when the customer or distributor pulls product from consignment inventory that we store at designated locations.
Until the products are pulled for use or sale by the customer or distributor, we retain control over the products’ disposition, including the right to pull back or relocate the products.
When collection is at risk, we assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, record a charge in the period such determination is made.
We recognize shipping fees, if any, received from customers in revenue.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 4 million and 5 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the third quarters of 2018 and 2017, and 4 million and 6 million shares outstanding during the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share for these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.


item2.txt
We invest more than $1 billion each year to develop new products for our portfolio, which includes tens of thousands of products.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Our third-quarter revenue was $4.26 billion, net income was $1.57 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.58.
In our core businesses, Analog revenue grew 8 percent and Embedded Processing declined 4 percent from the same quarter a year ago.
Our cash flow from operations of $7.0 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was $5.9 billion, or 37.5 percent of revenue.
We have returned $6.2 billion to owners in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends, and our strategy to return to owners all of our free cash flow remains consistent.
Over the last 12 months, our dividends represented 41 percent of free cash flow, emphasizing their sustainability.
For an explanation of free cash flow and the term “annual operating tax rate,” see the Non-GAAP financial information section.
Revenue of $4.26 billion increased $145 million, or 4 percent, due to higher revenue from Analog, partially offset by lower revenue from Embedded Processing.


part2.txt
The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter.
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $7.5 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 17, 2015.


