When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.
We have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction.
In particular, as a result of our Atmel acquisition, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation and disputes related to the Atmel business.You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.
The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, aerospace, office communication, and computing.
allows us to shorten our design and production cycles.
We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our embedded control products.
We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position.We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.
We have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction.
In particular, as a result of our Atmel acquisition, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation and disputes related to the Atmel business.
See Note 12 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding pending litigation.