When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.
See Note 15 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding pending litigation.
Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties.You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.
The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, aerospace, office communication, and computing.
techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields.
Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles.We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.
See Note 15 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding pending litigation.
Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties.
We may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the assets or businesses.