fls.txt



item1.txt
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in audited consolidated financial statements have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such SEC rules and regulations.
As further discussed in Note 3, on May 29, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Microsemi Corporation (Microsemi) and the Company's first quarter fiscal 2019 financial results include Microsemi's results beginning as of such acquisition date.
Note 3. Business Acquisitions On May 29, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
The Company financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under its amended and restated revolving line of credit (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), $3.00 billion of term loans ("Term Loan Facility") provided under the Company's amended and restated credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
The Company's primary reason for this acquisition was to expand the Company's range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending its served available market.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the aggregate amount of consideration paid by the Company was allocated to Microsemi's net tangible assets and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of May 29, 2018.
In-process research and development is capitalized until such time as the related projects are completed or abandoned at which time the capitalized amounts will begin to be amortized or written off.
Customer relationships are being amortized in a manner based on the estimated cash flows associated with the existing customers and anticipated retention rates.
Amortization expense associated with acquired intangible assets is not deductible for tax purposes.
The Company's reportable segments are semiconductor products and technology licensing.
The Company does not allocate operating expenses, interest income, interest expense, other income or expense, or provision for or benefit from income taxes to these segments for internal reporting purposes, as the Company does not believe that allocating these expenses is beneficial in evaluating segment performance.
Additionally, the Company does not allocate assets to segments for internal reporting purposes as it does not manage its segments by such metrics.
Distributors are customers that buy products with the intention of reselling them.
Substantially all of the Company's net sales are recognized from contracts with customers.


item2.txt
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
We incurred $22.0 million in costs related to the acquisition.
As reported in our March 31, 2019 Form 10-K, we learned of an ongoing compromise of our computer networks by what is believed to be sophisticated hackers.
We have taken steps to identify malicious activity on our network including a compromise of our network and, in May 2019, we began implementing a containment plan.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.
Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties.
We may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the assets or businesses.
As a result of such transactions, we have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past.
We may need or desire to refinance our convertible debt, senior debt, term loan debt or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.
Servicing our current debt will require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to fund future payments.


