In the opinion of management, the information furnished in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to fairly state the results for these interim periods and should be read in conjunction with Analog Devices, Inc.’s (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017) and related notes. The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) or any future period.
On March 10, 2017 (Acquisition Date), the Company completed the acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear), a designer, manufacturer and marketer of high performance analog integrated circuits. The acquisition of Linear is referred to as the Acquisition. The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include the financial results of Linear prospectively from the Acquisition Date. See Note 13, Acquisitions, of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
The Company has a 52-53 week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October. Fiscal 2018 is a 53-week fiscal year and fiscal 2017 was a 52-week fiscal year. The additional week in fiscal 2018 was included in the first quarter ended February 3, 2018. Therefore, the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included an additional week of operations as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
Revenue from product sales to customers is generally recognized when title passes, which is upon shipment in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries. Revenue from product sales to customers in other foreign countries is recognized subsequent to product shipment. Title for shipments to these other foreign countries ordinarily passes within a week of shipment. Accordingly, the Company defers the revenue recognized relating to these other foreign countries until title has passed. For multiple element arrangements, the Company allocates arrangement consideration among the elements based on the relative fair values of those elements as determined using vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence. The Company uses its best estimate of selling price to allocate arrangement consideration between the deliverables in cases where neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third-party evidence is available. A reserve for sales returns and allowances for customers is recorded based on historical experience or specific identification of an event necessitating a reserve.
Revenue from contracts with the United States government, government prime contractors and some commercial customers is generally recorded on a percentage of completion basis using either units delivered or costs incurred as the measurement basis for progress towards completion. The output measure is used to measure results directly and is generally the best measure of progress toward completion in circumstances in which a reliable measure of output can be established. Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables. Contract accounting requires judgment in estimating costs and assumptions related to technical issues and delivery schedule. Contract costs include material, subcontractor costs, labor and an allocation of indirect costs. The estimation of costs at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract. Changes in contract performance, estimated gross margin, including the impact of final contract settlements, and estimated losses are recognized in the period in which the changes or losses are determined.
Product sales to certain international distributors are made under agreements that permit limited stock return privileges but not sales price rebates. Revenue on these sales is recognized upon shipment at which time title passes. 
The Company defers revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to U.S. distributors and certain international distributors until the distributors resell the products to their customers. As a result, the Company’s revenue fully reflects end customer purchases and is not impacted by distributor inventory levels. Sales to certain of these distributors are made under agreements that allow such distributors to receive price-adjustment credits, as discussed below, and to return qualifying products for credit, as determined by the Company, in order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or obsolete product from their inventory. These agreements limit such returns to a certain percentage of the value of the Company’s shipments to that distributor during the prior quarter. In addition, such distributors are allowed to return unsold products if the Company terminates the relationship with the distributor. 
Certain distributors are granted price-adjustment credits for sales to their customers when the distributor’s standard cost (i.e., the Company’s sales price to the distributor) does not provide the distributor with an appropriate margin on its sales to its customers. As distributors negotiate selling prices with their customers, the final sales price agreed upon with the customer will be influenced by many factors, including the particular product being sold, the quantity ordered, the particular customer, the geographic location of the distributor and the competitive landscape. As a result, the distributor may request and receive a price-adjustment credit from the Company to allow the distributor to earn an appropriate margin on the transaction.
Certain distributors are also granted price-adjustment credits in the event of a price decrease subsequent to the date the product was shipped and billed to the distributor. Generally, the Company will provide a credit equal to the difference between the price paid by the distributor (less any prior credits on such products) and the new price for the product multiplied by the quantity of the specific product in the distributor’s inventory at the time of the price decrease.
Given the uncertainties associated with the levels of price-adjustment credits to be granted to certain distributors, the sales price to the distributor is not fixed or determinable until the distributor resells the products to their customers. Therefore, the Company defers revenue recognition from sales to certain distributors until the distributors have sold the products to their customers.
Generally, title to the inventory transfers to the distributor at the time of shipment or delivery to the distributor, and payment from the distributor is due in accordance with the Company’s standard payment terms. These payment terms are not contingent upon the distributors’ sale of the products to their customers. Upon title transfer to distributors, inventory is reduced for the cost of goods shipped, the margin (sales less cost of sales) is recorded as “deferred income on shipments to distributors, net” and an account receivable is recorded. Shipping costs are charged to cost of sales as incurred.
The deferred costs of sales to distributors have historically had very little risk of impairment due to the margins the Company earns on sales of its products and the relatively long life-cycle of the Company’s products. Product returns from distributors that are ultimately scrapped have historically been immaterial. In addition, price protection and price-adjustment credits granted to distributors historically have not exceeded the margins the Company earns on sales of its products. The Company continuously monitors the level and nature of product returns and is in frequent contact with the distributors to ensure reserves are established for all known material issues.
The Company generally offers a twelve-month warranty for its products. The Company’s warranty policy provides for replacement of defective products. Specific accruals are recorded for known product warranty issues. Product warranty expenses during each of the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017 were not material.
During the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e., the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $29.3 million and $111.9 million, respectively, and the total amount of proceeds received by the Company from the exercise of these options was $22.8 million and $88.4 million, respectively.
The following table provides the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI) by component and the related tax effects during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The Company estimates $4.5 million, net of tax, of losses of forward foreign currency derivative instruments included in OCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. There was no material ineffectiveness recorded within OCI related to designated forward foreign currency derivative instruments in the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
As of August 4, 2018, the Company held 14 investment securities, 6 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $65.0 million. As of October 28, 2017, the Company held 18 investment securities, 8 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $143.9 million. These unrealized losses were primarily related to corporate obligations that earn lower interest rates than current market rates. None of these investments have been in a loss position for more than twelve months. As the Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is unlikely that the Company will be required to sell the investments before recovery of their amortized basis, which will be at maturity, the Company does not consider those investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017.
Realized gains or losses on investments are determined based on the specific identification basis and are recognized in nonoperating expense (income). There were no material net realized gains or losses from the sales of available-for-sale investments during any of the fiscal periods presented.
Basic earnings per share is computed based only on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method. In calculating diluted earnings per share, the dilutive effect of 
stock options and restricted stock units is computed using the average market price for the respective period. In addition, the assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the average unrecognized compensation expense of stock options that are in-the-money and restricted stock units. This results in the “assumed” buyback of additional shares, thereby reducing the dilutive impact of in-the-money stock options. Potential shares related to certain of the Company’s outstanding stock options and restricted stock units were excluded because they were anti-dilutive. Those potential shares, determined based on the weighted average exercise prices during the respective periods, could be dilutive in the future. 
In connection with the Acquisition, the Company granted restricted stock awards to replace outstanding restricted stock awards of Linear employees. These restricted stock awards entitle recipients to voting and nonforfeitable dividend rights from the date of grant. These unvested stock-based compensation awards are considered participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating earnings per share. Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to these participating securities and therefore is excluded from the calculation of earnings per share allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below. The difference between the income allocated to participating securities under the basic and diluted two-class methods is not material.
The Company monitors global macroeconomic conditions on an ongoing basis and continues to assess opportunities for improved operational effectiveness and efficiency, as well as a better alignment of expenses with revenues. As a result of these assessments, the Company has undertaken various restructuring actions over the past several years. These actions are described below.
The following tables display the special charges taken for ongoing actions and a roll-forward from October 28, 2017 to August 4, 2018 of the employee separation and exit cost accruals established related to these actions.
The accrual related to these actions is included in accrued liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of August 4, 2018.
•The ICs sold by each of the Company's operating segments are manufactured using similar semiconductor manufacturing processes and raw materials in either the Company’s own production facilities or by third-party wafer fabricators using proprietary processes.
•The Company sells its products to tens of thousands of customers worldwide. Many of these customers use products spanning all operating segments in a wide range of applications.
•The ICs marketed by each of the Company's operating segments are sold globally through a direct sales force, third-party distributors, independent sales representatives and via the Company's website to the same types of customers.
The following table summarizes revenue by end market for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017. The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which the Company’s product will be incorporated. As data systems for capturing and tracking this data evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time. When this occurs, the Company reclassifies revenue by end market for prior periods. Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market. 
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Company applies the following fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level of input that is available and significant to the fair value measurement. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).
Level 1 — Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the reporting entity has the ability to access at the measurement date.
Level 2 — Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. If the asset or liability has a specified (contractual) term, a Level 2 input must be observable for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
Level 3 — Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date.
The tables below, set forth by level, presents the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, excluding accrued interest components that are accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017. The tables exclude cash on hand and assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost or any basis other than fair value. As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the Company held $375.1 million and $296.2 million, respectively, of cash and held-to-maturity investments that were excluded from the tables below. 
 In addition to the above, the Company has recognized contingent consideration payable at fair value (Level 3 measurement) of $7.6 million and $7.8 million as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, respectively. The changes in fair value in those periods were not material.
Cash equivalents and short-term investments — These investments are adjusted to fair value based on quoted market prices or are determined using a yield curve model based on current market rates.
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts — The estimated fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts, which includes derivatives that are accounted for as cash flow hedges and those that are not designated as cash flow hedges, is based on the estimated amount the Company would receive if it sold these agreements at the reporting date taking into consideration current interest rates as well as the creditworthiness of the counterparty for assets and the Company’s creditworthiness for liabilities. The fair value of these instruments is based upon valuation models using current market information such as strike price, spot rate, maturity date and volatility.
Contingent consideration — The fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated utilizing the income approach and is based upon significant inputs not observable in the market. The income approach is based on two steps. The first step involves a projection of the cash flows that is based on the Company’s estimates of the timing and probability of achieving the defined milestones. The second step involves converting the cash flows into a present value equivalent through discounting. The discount rate reflects the Baa costs of debt plus the relevant risk associated with the asset and the time value of money.
The table below presents the estimated fair value of certain financial instruments not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. The carrying amounts of the term loans approximate fair value. The term loans are classified as Level 2 measurements according to the fair value hierarchy. The fair values of the senior unsecured notes are obtained from broker prices and are classified as Level 1 measurements according to the fair value hierarchy. 
Foreign Exchange Exposure Management — The Company enters into forward foreign currency exchange contracts to offset certain operational and balance sheet exposures from the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Such exposures result from the portion of the Company’s operations, assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other 
than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Euro; other significant exposures include the Philippine Peso, the Japanese Yen and the British Pound. These foreign currency exchange contracts are entered into to support transactions made in the normal course of business, and accordingly, are not speculative in nature. The contracts are for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions, generally one year or less. Hedges related to anticipated transactions are designated and documented at the inception of the respective hedges as cash flow hedges and are qualitatively evaluated for effectiveness quarterly. Derivative instruments are employed to eliminate or minimize certain foreign currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified. As the terms of the contract and the underlying transaction are matched at inception, forward contract effectiveness is calculated by comparing the change in fair value of the contract to the change in the forward value of the anticipated transaction, with the gain or loss on the derivative reported as a component of accumulated OCI in shareholders’ equity and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. 
Additionally, the Company enters into forward foreign currency contracts that economically hedge the gains and losses generated by the re-measurement of certain recorded assets and liabilities in a non-functional currency. Changes in the fair value of these undesignated hedges are recognized in other (income) expense immediately as an offset to the changes in the fair value of the asset or liability being hedged. As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the total notional amount of these undesignated hedges was $63.1 million and $100.4 million, respectively. The fair value of these hedging instruments in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet was immaterial as of August 4, 2018 and was a liability of $1.8 million as of October 28, 2017. 
Interest Rate Exposure Management — The Company's current and future debt may be subject to interest rate risk. The Company utilizes interest rate derivatives to alter interest rate exposure in an attempt to reduce the effects of these changes. 
The market risk associated with the Company’s derivative instruments results from currency exchange rate or interest rate movements that are expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. The counterparties to the agreements relating to the Company’s derivative instruments consist of a number of major international financial institutions with high credit ratings. Based on the credit ratings of the Company’s counterparties as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, nonperformance is not perceived to be a significant risk. Furthermore, none of the Company’s derivatives are subject to collateral or other security arrangements and none contain provisions that are dependent on the Company’s credit ratings from any credit rating agency. While the contract or notional amounts of derivative financial instruments provide one measure of the volume of these transactions, they do not represent the amount of the Company’s exposure to credit risk. The amounts potentially subject to credit risk (arising from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts) are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties’ obligations under the contracts exceed the obligations of the Company to the counterparties. As a result of the above considerations, the Company does not consider the risk of counterparty default to be significant.
The Company records the fair value of its derivative financial instruments in its condensed consolidated financial statements in other current assets, other assets or accrued liabilities, depending on their net position, regardless of the purpose or intent for holding the derivative contract. Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments are either recognized periodically in earnings or in shareholders’ equity as a component of OCI. Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI and reclassified into earnings when the underlying contract matures and, for interest rate exposure derivatives, over the term of the corresponding debt instrument. Changes in the fair values of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting are reported in earnings as they occur.
For information on the unrealized holding gains (losses) on derivatives included in and reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income into the condensed consolidated statement of income related to forward foreign currency exchange contracts, see Note 4, Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
The Company reviews finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of assets may not be recoverable. If required, recoverability of these assets is determined by comparison of their carrying value to the estimated future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate over their remaining estimated useful lives. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized in earnings equals the 
Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis on the first day of the fourth quarter (on or about August 4) or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. The impairment test involves a qualitative assessment on the indefinite-lived intangible assets to determine whether it is more likely-than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. If it is determined that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than the carrying value, the Company would recognize into earnings the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the estimated fair value. No impairment of intangible assets resulted from the impairment tests in any of the periods presented.
redemption. The Notes are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with all of the Company’s other unsecured senior indebtedness. The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, as supplemented by a supplemental indenture, and the indenture and supplemental indenture contain certain covenants, events of default and other customary provisions. As of August 4, 2018, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market. The valuation of inventory requires the Company to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The Company employs a variety of methodologies to determine the net realizable value of its inventory. While a portion of the calculation to record inventory at its net realizable value is based on the age of the inventory and lower of cost or market calculations, a key factor in estimating obsolete or excess inventory requires the Company to estimate the future demand for its products. If actual demand is less than the Company’s estimates, impairment charges, which are recorded to cost of sales, may need to be recorded in future periods. Inventory in excess of saleable amounts is not valued, and the remaining inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market.
On March 10, 2017 (Acquisition Date), the Company completed its acquisition of all of the voting interests of Linear, an independent manufacturer of high performance analog integrated circuits. The total consideration paid to acquire Linear, which consisted of cash, common stock of the Company and share-based compensation awards, was approximately $15.8 billion. The Company believes that the combination creates the premier analog technology company with the industry’s most comprehensive suite of high-performance analog offerings. The results of operations of Linear from the Acquisition Date are included in the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of income, condensed consolidated balance sheet, and condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded acquisition accounting adjustments of $1.6 million to goodwill comprised of $4.7 million to intangible assets, $2.7 million to accounts receivable, $2.4 million to assumed liabilities and $1.1 million to deferred tax liabilities. The Acquisition accounting was completed during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. 
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information combines the unaudited results of the Company for the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017 and the unaudited results of Linear for the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017 and assumes that the Acquisition, which closed on March 10, 2017, was completed on November 1, 2015 (the first day of fiscal 2016). The pro forma consolidated financial information has been calculated after applying the Company’s accounting policies and includes adjustments for amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, transaction-related costs, a step-up in the value of acquired inventory and property, plant and equipment, compensation expense for ongoing share-based compensation arrangements replaced and interest expense for the debt incurred to fund the Acquisition, together with the consequential tax effects. These pro forma results have been prepared for comparative purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of the operating results of the Company that would have been achieved had the Acquisition actually taken place on November 1, 2015. In addition, these results are not intended to be a projection of future results and do not reflect events that may occur after the Acquisition, including but not limited to revenue enhancements, cost savings or operating synergies that the combined Company may achieve as a result of the Acquisition. 
The Company has not provided pro forma results of operations for any other acquisitions completed in the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 or July 29, 2017 herein as they were not material to the Company on either an individual or an aggregate basis. The Company included the results of operations of each acquisition in its consolidated statement of income from the date of each acquisition. 
The Company’s effective tax rate reflects the applicable tax rate in effect in the various tax jurisdictions around the world where the Company's income is earned. The Company's effective tax rate is generally lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate, primarily due to lower statutory tax rates applicable to the Company's operations in jurisdictions in which the Company earns a portion of its income.
The Tax Legislation reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%, effective January 1, 2018, which results in a blended statutory income tax rate for the Company of 23.4% for fiscal 2018. For the fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 (fiscal 2019), the Company’s U.S. statutory income tax rate will be 21.0%. 
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a $639.7 million discrete tax benefit for the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future, which is generally 21.0%. There was no material change to this provisional estimate in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. This provisional benefit is subject to revision based on further analysis and interpretation of the Tax Legislation and to the extent that future results differ from currently available projections. 
The Tax Legislation also implements a territorial tax system. As part of transitioning to the territorial tax system, the Tax Legislation includes a one-time transition tax based on our total post-1986 undistributed foreign earnings and profits that were previously deferred from U.S. income tax. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a provisional tax expense amount for the one-time transition tax of $687.1 million, which is comprised of the $751.1 million transition tax liability less a deferred tax liability of $64.0 million that was recorded in prior years. There was no material change to this provisional estimate in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. This provisional estimate may be impacted by a number of additional considerations, including, but not limited to, the issuance of final tax regulations, the Company's ongoing analysis of the Tax Legislation, the Company's earnings and profits subject to the one-time transition tax, and estimated earnings and profits and foreign tax credit pools for fiscal 2018 as well as the amount of earnings and profits held in cash or other specified assets. The Company intends to elect to pay this transition tax starting in fiscal 2019 without incurring interest over a period of eight years. As a result, $60.1 million of the transition tax is classified as current taxes payable and $691.0 million is classified as non-current taxes payable.
On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued guidance under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (SAB 118) directing taxpayers to consider the impact of the Tax Legislation as “provisional” when it does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete its accounting for the change in tax law. Also in March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05, Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, to add various SEC paragraphs pursuant to the issuance of SAB 118, to Accounting Standards Codification topic 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740). In accordance with SAB 118, the amount reported for the tax benefit from re-measuring the Company’s net deferred tax liabilities to the lower 21.0% statutory rate and the amount reported for the additional U.S. income tax resulting from the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation including the ongoing evaluation of the impact on the Company’s indefinite reinvestment assertions regarding undistributed earnings and profits, represents the Company's best estimate as it continues to accumulate and process data to finalize its underlying calculations and to review further guidance that regulators are expected to issue. The Company is also analyzing other provisions of the Tax Legislation to determine if they will impact the Company's effective rate for fiscal 2018 or in the future. The Company will continue to refine its adjustments through the permissible measurement period, which is not to extend beyond one year after the enactment date.
All of the Company’s U.S. federal tax returns prior to fiscal year 2014 are no longer subject to examination. All of the Company’s Ireland tax returns prior to fiscal year 2012 are no longer subject to examination.
The Company has numerous audits ongoing at any time throughout the world, including an Internal Revenue Service income tax audit for Linear’s pre-acquisition fiscal year 2015, various U.S. state and local tax audits, and transfer pricing audits in Spain, the Philippines and Ireland. As the statute of limitations for Ireland's transfer pricing audit expires in the quarter ended November 3, 2018, the Company expects to receive formal correspondence from Ireland within the next several weeks.
The following table summarizes the changes in the total amounts of unrealized tax benefits for the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018.
lower of cost and net realizable value test. The guidance applies only to inventories for which cost is determined by methods other than last-in first-out and the retail inventory method. The guidance in ASU 2015-11 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 and early adoption is permitted. The Company adopted ASU 2015-11 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The adoption of ASU 2015-11 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 did not impact the Company's financial position or results of operations.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805) Clarifying the Definition of a Business (ASU 2017-01). ASU 2017-01 clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. The definition of a business affects many areas of accounting including acquisitions, disposals, goodwill, and consolidation. The guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those periods. The Company will adopt ASU 2017-01 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The impact of the adoption on the Company's financial position and results of operations will be dependent upon any future acquisitions or disposals.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) (ASU 2016-16). ASU 2016-16 will require an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs. ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual reporting period for which financial statements have not been issued or made available for issuance. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-16 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact, if any, adoption will have on its financial position and results of operations.
Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact adoption will have on its financial position and results of operations.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (ASU 2016-13). ASU 2016-13 requires a financial asset (or group of financial assets) measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. The allowance for credit losses is a valuation account that is deducted from the amortized cost basis of the financial asset(s) to present the net carrying value at the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset. ASU 2016-13 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact, if any, adoption will have on its financial position and results of operations.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09), which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Additionally, the guidance requires improved disclosures to help users of financial statements better understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The FASB has issued several amendments and updates to the new revenue standard, including guidance related to when an entity should recognize revenue gross as a principal or net as an agent and how an entity should identify performance obligations. As amended, ASU 2014-09 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which is the Company's first quarter of fiscal 2019. The Company has developed a project plan for the implementation of the guidance, including a review of all revenue streams to identify any differences in the timing, measurement or presentation of revenue recognition. The Company has reviewed its revenue streams, including those from the Acquisition, and is nearing completion in assessing all potential impacts of the standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, including any impacts from recently issued 
amendments, and retrospectively adjusting financial information for prior fiscal years. While the Company is still in the process of completing its evaluation of the standard, it currently believes the most significant impact will be related to the timing of recognition of sales to certain distributors. As described in Note 2, Revenue Recognition, of these Notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements, the Company currently defers revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to certain distributors until the distributors resell the products to their customers. Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company will no longer be permitted to defer revenue until sale by the distributor to the end customer, but rather, will be required to estimate the effects of returns and allowances provided to distributors and record revenue at the time of sale to the distributor. The Company will adopt ASU 2014-09, using the full retrospective method, upon its effective date for the Company which is the Company’s first quarter of fiscal 2019.
On August 21, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.48 per outstanding share of common stock. The dividend will be paid on September 12, 2018 to all shareholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2018.
Also on August 21, 2018, the Company reinstated its share repurchase program, and its Board of Directors approved an increase to the current authorization for the stock repurchase program by an additional $2.0 billion to $8.2 billion in the aggregate. Under the program, the Company may repurchase outstanding shares of common stock from time to time in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions.
•servicing the substantial debt that we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition.
•a decline in the U.S. government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, a prolonged U.S. government shutdown or delays in contract awards;
•the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters, widespread travel disruptions, security risks, terrorist activities, international conflicts and other events beyond our control.
Our future success significantly depends on our continued ability to execute our business strategy, continue to improve our existing products and design, develop, produce and market innovative new products. Product design, development, innovation and enhancement is often a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving significant investment in 
We may not be able to compete successfully in markets within the semiconductor industry in the future.
We rely on third-party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers for some industry-standard wafers, manufacturing processes, assembly and test services, and transportation, and we generally cannot control their availability or conditions of supply.
We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on third-party suppliers, assembly and test subcontractors, freight carriers and wafer fabricators (collectively, suppliers) to supply most of our products that can be manufactured using industry-standard processes. This reliance involves several risks, including reduced control over availability, capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs. We currently source approximately half of our wafer requirements annually from third-party wafer fabrication foundries, primarily Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. In addition, these suppliers often provide manufacturing services to our competitors and therefore periods of increased industry demand may result in capacity constraints. In certain instances, the third-party supplier is the sole source of highly specialized processing services. If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers. If additional or replacement suppliers or manufacturing processes are not available, we may also experience delays in product development or shipment which could, in turn, result in the temporary or permanent loss of customers.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to service our debt obligations, including making payments on our outstanding term loans and senior unsecured notes.
•reduce or delay planned capital expenditures or operating expenditures.
Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt, which could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, we may not be able to obtain any such financing, refinancing or complete a sale of assets on economically favorable terms. In the case of financing or refinancing, favorable interest rates will depend on the health of the debt capital markets.
Our significant existing indebtedness could also have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes or creating competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels.
Semiconductor products are highly complex and may contain defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are developed. Failures in our products and services or in the products of customers could result in damage to our reputation for 
The fabrication of integrated circuits is highly complex and precise, and our manufacturing processes utilize a substantial amount of technology. Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional. While we have significant expertise in semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes could become unstable. This instability could result in manufacturing delays and product shortages, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our authorization. Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and there can be no 
assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment.
We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as Internet connectivity, network communications and email. Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. We also utilize external cloud providers for certain infrastructure activities. If we were to experience a prolonged disruption in the information technology systems that involve our internal communications or our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. We may also be subject to security breaches of our information technology systems and certain of our products caused by viruses, illegal break-ins or hacking, sabotage, or acts of vandalism by third parties or our employees or contractors. Our security measures or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent security breaches, defects, bugs or errors. In addition, we provide our confidential and proprietary information to our strategic partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business. While we employ confidentiality agreements to protect such information, nonetheless those third parties may also be subject to security breaches or otherwise compromise the protection of such information. Security breaches of our information technology systems or those of our partners could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential and proprietary information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.
If we are unable to recruit or retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be adversely affected.
Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers. The competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The inability to attract, hire and retain key employees with critical technical skills to achieve our strategy, including as a result of changes to immigration policies, could also have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on our business should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or employees.
To remain competitive, we may need to invest in or acquire other companies, purchase or license technology from third parties, or enter into other strategic transactions in order to introduce new products or enhance our existing products.
•increased risk of costly and time-consuming legal proceedings.
We rely on supplies, services and manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable areas, which could affect our ability to produce products.
We, like many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on supplies, services, internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and other subcontractors in geologically unstable locations around the world. Earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding or other natural disasters may disrupt local semiconductor-related businesses and adversely affect manufacturing capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment, and availability of key services, including transport of our products worldwide. Our insurance may not adequately cover losses resulting from such disruptions. Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, as a result of fire, flood, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or otherwise, could result in a temporary or permanent loss of customers for affected products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
•trade policy, trade, travel, export or taxation disputes or restrictions, government sanctions, import or export tariffs or other restrictions imposed by the U.S. government or by the governments of the countries in which we do business, particularly in China; 
•complex, varying and changing government regulations and legal standards and requirements, particularly with respect to price protection, competition practices, export control regulations and restrictions, customs and tax requirements, immigration, anti-boycott regulations, data privacy, intellectual property, anti-corruption and environmental compliance, including U.S. customs and export regulations and restrictions, International Traffic in Arms Regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;
•costs associated with our foreign defined benefit pension plans.
Many of these risks are present in China. While we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving policies, laws and regulations, including those relating to trade, taxation, import and export tariffs or restrictions, currency controls, antitrust, cybersecurity and data protection, the environment, indigenous innovation and the promotion of a domestic semiconductor industry, and intellectual property rights and enforcement and protection of those rights. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies, international trade policies and relations, or U.S.-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions on imports or exports, currency revaluations, or retaliatory actions by China in response to U.S. actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. 
At August 4, 2018, our principal source of liquidity was $772.6 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $369.7 million was held in the United States and the remaining balance was held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries. As we intend to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely, certain cash held outside the United States is not available for repatriation as dividends to meet certain aspects of our cash requirements in the United States. We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends and acquisitions. If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, borrowings under our current revolving credit facility, future debt or equity offerings or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are indefinitely reinvested, and we may be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding and U.S. income taxes under current tax laws as revised by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Our operating results are dependent on the performance of independent distributors.
We are subject to environmental, health and safety (EHS) regulations, which could increase our expenses and affect our operating results.
•increased expenses associated with compliance.
Some of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies of the United States government and subcontracts with its prime contractors. As a United States government contractor or subcontractor, we are subject to federal contracting regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which govern the allowability of costs incurred by us in the performance of 
United States government contracts. Certain contract pricing is based on estimated direct and indirect costs, which are subject to change. Additionally, the United States government is entitled after final payment on certain negotiated contracts to examine all of our cost records with respect to such contracts and to seek a downward adjustment to the price of the contract if it determines that we failed to furnish complete, accurate and current cost or pricing data in connection with the negotiation of the price of the contract.
In connection with our United States government business, we are also subject to government audits and to review and approval of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws. In certain circumstances, if we do not comply with the terms of a contract or with regulations or statutes, we could be subject to downward contract price adjustments or refund obligations or could in extreme circumstances be assessed civil and criminal penalties or be debarred or suspended from obtaining future contracts for a specified period of time. Any such suspension or debarment or other sanction could have an adverse effect on our business.
Under some of our government subcontracts, we are required to maintain secure facilities and to obtain security clearances for personnel involved in performance of the contract, in compliance with applicable federal standards. If we were unable to comply with these requirements, or if personnel critical to our performance of these contracts were unable to obtain or maintain their security clearances, we might be unable to perform these contracts or compete for other projects of this nature, which could adversely affect our revenue.
Restrictions in our revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments may limit our activities.
Our current revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments impose, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may impose, restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our Company, including to undertake certain transactions, to create certain liens on our assets and to incur certain subsidiary indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and changes in technology, government regulations and the level of competition. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. If we breach any of the covenants under our revolving credit facility, the indentures governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes, the term loans or any future debt instruments to which we may become subject and do not obtain appropriate waivers, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable or we may be restricted from further borrowing under our revolving credit facility.
•negative media publicity targeting us or our suppliers, customers or competitors.
