PART II – OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings



We are subject to various claims, legal actions and complaints arising in the ordinary course of business. We are not presently a party to any litigation the outcome of which we believe, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition.



Item 1A. Risk Factors



A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018. The information below includes additional and updated risks relating to our $350,000 aggregate principal amount 5.750% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (the Notes) and other indebtedness. The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.



Our level and terms of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and take advantage of new business opportunities and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments.



As of June 29, 2019, we had $468,357 outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities. Giving pro forma effect to the issuance of the Notes on July 16, 2019, as of June 29, 2019 we would have had $350,000 in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding, approximately $174,000 outstanding under our Tranche B term loan facility and no amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for changes to our capital structure incurred subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.





•increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;



•requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow used in operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; therefore, reducing our liquidity and our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;



•exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, and corresponding increased interest expense, because future borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities will be at variable rates of interest;



•reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes due to the costs and expenses associated with such debt;



•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes;



•limiting our ability to adjust to changing marketplace conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have less debt; and



•potentially causing us to fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments, which, among other things, require us to maintain specified financial ratios, which failure could, if not cured or waived, have a material adverse effect on our ability to fulfill our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and the Notes and on our business and prospects generally.



In addition, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs the Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including limitations on our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness (including guarantee obligations); incur liens; engage in mergers, consolidations and certain other fundamental changes; dispose of assets; make advances, investments and loans; engage in sale and leaseback transactions; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; pay dividends, distributions and other payments in respect of capital stock; repurchase or retire capital stock, warrants or options; and engage in other actions that we may believe are advisable or necessary for our business. As a result of these restrictions, we will be limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to capitalize on available business opportunities. Further, our tranche B term loan facility is also subject to mandatory prepayments in certain circumstances and requires a prepayment of a certain percentage of our excess cash flow. Any future mandatory prepayments will reduce our cash available for other purposes and could impact our ability to reinvest in other areas of our business.



There are no assurances that we will maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. In the event of a default under any of our indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could elect to declare all the funds borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which in turn could result in cross-defaults under our other indebtedness. The lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could also elect to terminate their commitments thereunder and cease making further loans, and such lenders could institute foreclosure proceedings against their collateral, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 



Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.



Our senior secured credit facilities bear, and other indebtedness we may incur in the future may bear, interest at a variable rate. As a result, at any given time interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities and any other variable rate debt could be higher or lower than current levels. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and therefore net income and associated cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.



Increases in interest rates may directly impact the amount of interest we are required to pay and reduce earnings accordingly. In addition, recent developments in tax policy as a part of the Tax Act, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for a portion of the interest paid on outstanding indebtedness, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity.



Despite our current level of indebtedness, the terms of our existing indebtedness allow us, under certain circumstances, to incur substantially more debt, incur substantial ordinary course operating obligations, and enter into other transactions, which would increase our leverage and further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above.



We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs the senior unsecured notes contain restrictions on incurring additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. Additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. In addition, these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as certain trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, the risks described herein may increase.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds







We purchase common stock from time to time to mitigate dilution related to new shares issued for employee compensation such as stock options, restricted stock units, performance restricted stock units and for employee stock purchase plan activity, as well as to return to shareholders capital not immediately required to fund ongoing operations. 



Share Purchase Plan



Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a purchase authorization of 2,000 shares. Authority over pricing and timing under the authorization has been delegated to management. The share purchase authorization has no expiration date. We made no share purchases during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019. As of June 29, 2019, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.



Capped Calls



In connection with the pricing of the tangible equity units (TEUs) sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls. Per the Capped Call Agreements, the outstanding Capped Calls will automatically settle upon Capped Call Expiration in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. As of June 29, 2019 the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, subject to market conditions. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our equity instruments.



Item 6. Exhibits





SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





