Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 



Foreign Currency Exchange Risk



Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our international subsidiaries have functional currencies other than our U.S. dollar reporting currency and, occasionally, transact business in currencies other than their functional currencies. These non-functional currency transactions expose us to market risk on assets, liabilities and cash flows recognized on these transactions. 



The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies decreases the value of foreign currency-denominated revenue and earnings when translated into U.S. dollars resulting in an unfavorable currency translation impact on revenue and earnings. Conversely, a weakening of the U.S. dollar increases the value of foreign currency-denominated revenue and earnings resulting in a favorable currency translation impact on revenue and earnings. 



A hypothetical 10% appreciation or depreciation in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, assuming all other variables are held constant, would result in an increase or decrease in revenue of approximately $16,581 for the six months ended March 30, 2019. 



We have operational procedures to mitigate these non-functional currency exposures. We also utilize foreign currency exchange contracts to exchange currencies at set exchange rates on future dates to offset expected gains or losses on specifically identified exposures. 



Mark-to-market gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges in our currency hedging program are recorded within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Mark-to-market gains and losses are reclassified from AOCI to earnings in the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income and in the same period as the recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. Net gains and losses on foreign currency transactions included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income were net losses of $309 and $642 during the six months ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts. 



Interest Rates



We are directly exposed to changes in market interest rates on cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term debt, and are indirectly exposed to the impact of market interest rates on overall business activity. 



On floating-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest income, respectively. On floating-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest expense, respectively. On fixed-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest income but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the investments, respectively. On fixed-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest expense but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the debt, respectively.



As of March 30, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $74,122, some of which was invested in interest-bearing bank deposits or money market funds. The interest-bearing bank deposits and money market funds have interest rates that reset every 1 to 89 days and generate interest income that will vary based on changes in short-term interest rates. A hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in market interest rates, assuming all other variables were held constant, would decrease interest income by approximately $59 for the six months ended March 30, 2019.



Secured floating rate credit facilities require interest payments to be calculated at a floating rate and are therefore impacted by increases or decreases in market interest rates. We have swapped a portion of our floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate such that the interest expense on this debt will not vary with changes in short-term interest rates. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our interest rate swaps. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in floating interest rates, assuming all other variables were held constant, would result in an approximately $2,426 increase in future annual interest expense.



