Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations





•Overview



•Financial Results



•Cash Flow Comparison



•Liquidity and Capital Resources



•Off-balance Sheet Arrangements



•Critical Accounting Policies



•Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements



•Other Matters



•Forward-looking Statements





Overview



MTS Systems Corporation is a leading global supplier of high performance test systems and sensors. Our testing hardware and software solutions help customers accelerate and improve design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures. Our high performance sensors provide controls for a variety of applications measuring acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure, force and sound. As of September 30, 2017, we had 3,500 employees and revenue of $787,955 for fiscal year 2017.



Our goal is to sustain profitable enterprise growth, consistently generate strong cash flow and deliver a strong return on invested capital to our shareholders by leveraging our leadership position in the research and development and industrial global end markets for high-performance test systems and sensors. Our desire is to be the innovation leader in creating test and measurement solutions and to provide total customer satisfaction. We believe we can create value for our customers by helping to enhance the precision, improve the reliability and create superior safety for their products, while reducing the delivery time to market. Our competitive advantages include our proprietary technology and advanced application expertise, our expansive global footprint with long-term customer relationships, our large installed base of testing equipment and our expanded presence in the rapidly growing sensors market. We believe these competitive advantages position us well in both the Test and Sensors markets to deliver profitable growth in the years ahead.





•Realize growth within the rapidly expanding Sensors market through an increase in our global market share and new product development;



•Expand Test services offerings into our large installed base of Test equipment;



•Capitalize on growth opportunities in the Test materials sector spurred by new manufacturing processes, focus on light-weight materials in aerospace and ground vehicle markets, and trends in energy exploration; and 



•Adapt our industry-leading ground vehicle testing applications to align with emerging trends in vehicle electrification, autonomous vehicles and simulation. 



We believe that our business model supports our growth objectives, provided that we continue to move aggressively to build our infrastructure, expand our offerings and execute on opportunities with our key customers around the world. In order to accelerate our revenue growth over the next five years, investments in infrastructure, sales support and field service capacity and capability are essential. 



Tax Cuts and Jobs Act



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act made numerous changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law and reduced our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2018 and future periods. Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act lowers the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and prompts various other changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law, including the establishment of a territorial-style system for taxing foreign-source income of domestic multinational corporations. We have completed our initial analysis to quantify the tax impacts of the Tax Act and have recorded 



an estimate of the impact in our fiscal year 2018 results. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the impact of the Tax Act.



Restructuring Initiative



During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives. These actions include the transfer of certain production operations in China to a contract manufacturing partner in fiscal year 2018. As a result, we recorded $739 and $1,340 of pre-tax restructuring expense in the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of restructuring initiatives.



Foreign Currency



Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our financial results are principally exposed to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Chinese yuan. A change in foreign exchange rates could positively or negatively affect our reported financial results. The discussion below quantifies the impact of foreign currency translation on our financial results for the periods discussed.



Terms



The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company," or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.



Financial Results



Total Company 



Results of Operations



The following table compares results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018. 







See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on restructuring and related costs. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, we completed the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB). As a result of the PCB acquisition, we incurred certain non-recurring costs during fiscal year 2017 including acquisition integration costs and a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory (PCB acquisition inventory adjustment).



Revenue





Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 0.5% primarily driven by growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by lower Test revenue. Sensors revenue increased $9,595 primarily driven by continued growth in the Sensors position sector and continued momentum from new opportunities in the Sensors test sector, along with broad demand across the remaining Sensors sectors. Test revenue decreased $8,304 primarily driven by a decline in equipment volume resulting from weakness in the ground vehicles sector that continues to operate in a rapidly changing environment. Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog which takes longer to convert to revenue, partially offset by continued growth in the Test materials sector. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 2.0%.



Revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 declined 1.1% primarily driven by lower Test revenue, partially offset by growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation. Test revenue decreased $34,829 primarily driven by a decline in equipment volume resulting from weakness in the ground vehicles sector that continues to operate in a rapidly changing environment. Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog which takes longer to convert to revenue, partially offset by continued growth in the Test materials sector. Sensors revenue increased $29,359 primarily driven by continued growth in the Sensors position sector and continued momentum from new opportunities in the Sensors test sector, along with broad demand across the remaining Sensors sectors. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 4.2%.



Gross Profit





Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 1.0% primarily driven by higher Sensors revenue volume, partially offset by lower Test revenue volume. Gross margin rate increased 0.2 percentage points primarily due to leverage on 



increased Sensors revenue volume and cost containment measures in Test, partially offset by the lower contribution from product mix and unfavorable leverage on lower Test revenue volume. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 1.2% and the gross margin rate increased 0.3 percentage points.



Gross profit for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 0.5% primarily driven by increased Sensors revenue volume and the prior year impact of the PCB acquisition inventory adjustment of $7,975, partially offset by reduced Test revenue volume. Gross margin rate increased 0.6 percentage points primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition inventory adjustment and leverage on increased Sensors revenue volume, partially offset by the lower contribution from product mix and unfavorable leverage on lower Test revenue volume. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 5.4% and the gross margin rate declined 0.5 percentage points.



Selling and Marketing Expense





Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 1.0% primarily due to the unfavorable impact of currency translation and increased compensation and commission expenses in Sensors, partially offset by lower bad debt expense and cost containment measures in Test. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, selling and marketing expense decreased 1.0%.



Selling and marketing expense for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 2.0% primarily driven by increased compensation and commission expenses in Sensors and the unfavorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by lower commission expense and cost containment measures in Test. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, selling and marketing expense was flat.



General and Administrative Expense





General and administrative expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 1.9% primarily due to an increase in professional fees and the unfavorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, general and administrative expense increased 3.1%.



General and administrative expense for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 11.6% primarily due to prior year China investigation expenses of $8,300 and prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $2,402, partially offset by an increase in professional fees and the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, general and administrative expense increased 3.5%.



Research and Development Expense









Income from Operations





Income from operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 declined 2.1% primarily due to the lower gross margin contribution from product mix, unfavorable leverage on lower Test revenue volume, and continued investment in product development in Sensors, partially offset by leverage on volume growth in Sensors. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations decreased 7.9%.



Income from operations for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 16.7% primarily driven by leverage on volume growth in Sensors, prior year China investigation expenses of $8,980, prior year impact from the PCB acquisition inventory adjustment of $7,975, and prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses of $2,955. The increase was partially offset by the lower gross margin contribution from product mix, unfavorable leverage on lower Test revenue volume, and an increase in professional fees. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations decreased 22.8%.



Interest Expense, Net





Interest expense, net for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 decreased primarily due to reduced interest rates on the tranche B term loan facility as a result of the debt repricing completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, lower current year average debt outstanding and current year gains on interest rate swaps.



Other Income (Expense), Net





The increase in other income (expense), net for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily driven by a relative decrease in losses on foreign currency transactions. 



Income Tax Provision (Benefit)









Net Income





Net income and diluted earnings per share for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased due to an increase in the effective tax rate and higher operating expenses, partially offset by increased gross profit.



Net income and diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased due to a reduction in the effective tax rate driven by discrete benefits stemming from the Tax Act, as well as lower operating expenses and increased gross profit.



Segment Results



Test Segment 



Results of Operations 



The following table compares results of operations for Test, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our operating segments.







Revenue





Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 6.7% primarily driven by a decline in equipment volume resulting from weakness in the ground vehicles sector that continues to operate in a rapidly changing environment. Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog which takes longer to convert to revenue. This was partially offset by continued growth in the materials sector and the favorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 8.8%. 



Revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 9.2% primarily driven by a decline in equipment volume resulting from weakness in the ground vehicles sector that continues to operate in a rapidly changing environment. Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog which takes longer to convert to revenue. This was partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation, continued growth in the materials sector and growth in service revenue. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 11.9%. 



Gross Profit





Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2018 declined 11.0% primarily due to lower revenue volume and product mix. Gross margin rate declined 1.6 percentage points primarily driven by the lower contribution from product mix, unfavorable leverage on lower revenue volume, and current year restructuring costs, partially offset by the impact of lower compensation and warranty expense. Excluding the impact of currency translation and current year restructuring costs, gross profit declined 11.7% and gross margin rate declined 1.1 percentage points.



Gross profit for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 declined 17.1% primarily due to lower revenue volume. Gross margin rate declined 3.1 percentage points primarily driven by the lower contribution from product mix, unfavorable leverage on lower revenue volume, the unfavorable impact of currency translation, and current year restructuring costs. Excluding the impact of currency translation and current year restructuring costs, gross profit declined 18.2% and gross margin rate declined 2.5 percentage points.



Selling and Marketing Expense





Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 declined 1.7% primarily due to lower bad debt expense and cost containment measures, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses, and current year restructuring costs, selling and marketing expense decreased 4.1%.



Selling and marketing expense for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 declined 1.9% primarily due to a decrease in commission expense and cost containment measures, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses, and current year restructuring costs, selling and marketing expense decreased 3.9%.



General and Administrative Expense





General and administrative expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 7.0% primarily due to increased professional fees and the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses, and current year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense increased 5.9%.



General and administrative expense for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 declined 15.7% primarily due to prior year China investigation expenses of $8,300, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation and increased professional 



fees. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses, and current year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense increased 4.1%.



Research and Development Expense









Income from Operations





Income from operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 declined 55.5% primarily due to the decrease in gross profit driven by the decline in equipment volume resulting from weakness in the ground vehicles sector and the lower contribution from product mix, as well as current year restructuring costs. The decrease was partially offset by cost containment measures. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses, and current year restructuring costs, income from operations decreased 50.0%.





Sensors Segment



Results of Operations



The following table compares results of operations for Sensors, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our operating segments.







Revenue  





Revenue for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 13.8% and 14.2%, respectively, primarily driven by continued growth in the Sensors position sector and continued momentum from new revenue opportunities in the Sensors test sector, along with broad demand across the remaining Sensors sectors and the favorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 10.7% and 10.3%, respectively.



Gross Profit





Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 15.3% primarily due to increased revenue volume and the favorable impact of currency translation. Gross margin rate increased 0.7 percentage points primarily driven by favorable leverage on increased revenue volume, partially offset by the lower gross margin contribution from product mix. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, and prior year restructuring costs, gross profit increased 11.2% and the gross margin rate increased 0.2 percentage points.



Gross profit for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 25.1% primarily due to increased revenue volume, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment of $7,975, and the favorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by an increase in compensation expense. Gross margin rate increased 4.4 percentage points primarily driven by the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment and favorable leverage on increased revenue volume, partially offset by the lower gross margin contribution from product mix. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, and prior year restructuring costs, gross profit increased 10.9% and the gross margin rate increased 0.3 percentage points.



Selling and Marketing Expense





Selling and marketing expense for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 4.4% and 6.9%, respectively, primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of currency translation, increased compensation expense, and increased commission expense on higher revenue volume. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both years, selling and marketing expense increased 2.8% and 4.8%, respectively.



General and Administrative Expense





General and administrative expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 declined 4.2% primarily driven by prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and prior year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense was flat.



General and administrative expense for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 5.8% primarily driven by prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $2,402, partially offset by an increase in professional fees. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and prior year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense increased 2.8%.



Research and Development Expense







Income from Operations 





Income from operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 56.8% primarily due to leverage on increased revenue volume, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $577 and the favorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by continued investments in product development. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 34.9%.



Income from operations for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 135.9% primarily driven by leverage on increased revenue volume, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment of $7,975, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $2,955 and the favorable impact of currency translation. The increase was partially offset by higher compensation and commission expense and investments in product development. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 26.9%.



Cash Flow Comparison







Operating Activities



The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash provided by working capital associated with timing fluctuations from inventory purchases, advanced payments from customers, accounts receivable payments received, unbilled accounts receivable accruals and billings and accounts payable payments. Timing of payroll-related payments also contributed to the decrease in cash provided by operating activities. This decrease in cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by a decrease in cash used by other assets and liabilities primarily driven by an increase in income taxes payable, as well as an increase in net income offset by a decrease in deferred income taxes due to the remeasurement of our estimated deferred tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Act. 



Investing Activities



The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the timing of investments in property and equipment in the current year. 



Financing Activities



The increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to the annual required excess cash flow payment and planned prepayments on the tranche B term loan made in fiscal year 2018. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources



We had cash and cash equivalents of $66,403 as of June 30, 2018. Of this amount, $2,722 was located in North America, $24,530 in Europe and $39,151 in Asia. Repatriation of certain foreign earnings is restricted by local law. The North American balance was primarily invested in bank deposits. The balances in Europe and Asia were primarily invested in money market funds and bank deposits. In accordance with our investment policy, we place cash equivalent investments with issuers who have high-quality investment credit ratings. In addition, we limit the amount of investment exposure we have with any particular issuer. Our investment objectives are to preserve principal, maintain liquidity and achieve the best available return consistent with our primary objectives of safety and liquidity. As of June 30, 2018, we held no short-term investments. 



As a result of the transition tax related to the enactment of the Tax Act, we repatriated a portion of the cash held in our foreign subsidiaries without such funds being subject to additional federal income tax liability during the nine months ended June 30, 2018. We are currently evaluating repatriation of any additional funds held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including whether to utilize such funds for early repayment of debt. 



As of June 30, 2018, our capital structure was comprised of $52,800 in short-term debt, $351,609 in long-term debt and $472,550 in shareholders' equity. The Consolidated Balance Sheets also included $13,077 of unamortized debt issuance costs as of June 30, 2018. Total interest-bearing debt at June 30, 2018 was $404,409. We have a credit agreement with a consortium of financial institutions (the Credit Agreement) which provides for senior secured credit facilities consisting of a Revolving Credit Facility and a Term Facility. The maturity date of the Revolving Credit Facility is July 5, 2021 and the maturity date of the loans under the Term Facility is July 5, 2023, unless a term loan lender agrees to extend the maturity date pursuant to a loan modification agreement made in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement.



The Credit Agreement also requires mandatory prepayments on our Term Facility in certain circumstances, including the potential for an annual required prepayment of a certain percentage of our excess cash flow.



Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults). The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense. These covenants restrict our ability to pay dividends and purchase outstanding shares of common stock. As of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item I of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on debt instruments.



Shareholders' equity increased by $43,773 during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to $50,568 net income, $3,478 other comprehensive income and $5,366 stock-based compensation, partially offset by $16,034 dividends declared. As of June 30, 2018, we believe our current capital resources will be sufficient to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and operations for the foreseeable future, including at least the next twelve months. 



Off-balance Sheet Arrangements



As of June 30, 2018, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. 



Critical Accounting Policies



The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which require us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions, giving due consideration to materiality, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of any contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. We regularly review our estimates and assumptions, which are based on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For further information, see "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" under Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.



Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements



Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 



Other Matters



Dividends



Our dividend policy is to maintain a payout ratio that allows dividends to increase in conjunction with the long-term growth of earnings per share, while sustaining dividends through economic cycles. Our dividend practice is to target, over time, a payout ratio of approximately 25% of net earnings per share. We have historically paid dividends to holders of our common stock on a quarterly basis. The declaration and payment of future dividends will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, our earnings, financial condition, debt repayment obligations, business developments needs and regulatory consideration, and are at the discretion of our Board of Directors. 



Forward-looking Statements



Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q including, but not limited to, the discussion under Item 2, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act). In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, ROIC, EBITDA, net income or loss, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, our capital structure, the adequacy of our liquidity and reserves, the anticipated level of expenditures required and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services, our restructuring initiatives, merger or acquisition activity and the potential impact of newly acquired businesses; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements; (iv) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators or statements relating to our order cancellation history, our ability to convert our backlog of undelivered orders into revenue, the timing of purchases, competitive advantages and growth in end markets; (v) statements regarding our products and their characteristics, fluctuations in the costs of raw materials for products, our geographic footprint, performance, sales potential or effect in the hands of customers; and (vi) statements regarding the estimated tax benefits we may receive under the Tax Act and our expectations concerning recorded adjustments. Words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "targeted," "should," "potential," "goals," "strategy," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. 



Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 and in Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy. Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors. Therefore, you should consider these forward-looking statements with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances. Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. 



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds







We purchase common stock from time to time to mitigate dilution related to new shares issued as equity for employee compensation such as stock options, restricted stock units, performance restricted stock units and employee stock purchase plan activity, as well as to return to shareholders capital not immediately required to fund ongoing operations. 



Share Purchase Plan



Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a 2,000 share purchase authorization. Authority over pricing and timing under the authorization has been delegated to management. The share purchase authorization has no expiration date. We made no share purchases during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. As of June 30, 2018, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.



Capped Calls



In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls. Per the Capped Call Agreements, the outstanding Capped Calls will automatically settle upon expiration on July 1, 2019. As of June 30, 2018 the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, subject to market conditions. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our equity instruments.



Item 6. Exhibits





SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





