Item 4.Controls and Procedures

Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
As required by SEC rules, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of May 31, 2018.
This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer.
Based on this evaluation, these officers have concluded that the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective at a reasonable assurance level as of May 31, 2018.
However, because all disclosure procedures must rely to a significant degree on actions or decisions made by employees throughout the organization, such as reporting of material events, the Company and its reporting officers believe that they cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud or errors and omissions, if any, within the Company will be 

detected.
Limitations within any control system, including the Company’s control system, include faulty judgments in decision-making or simple errors or mistakes.
In addition, controls can be circumvented by an individual, by collusion between two or more people, or by management override of the control.
Because of these limitations, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.
During the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company completed its acquisitions of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”) and Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
SEC guidance permits management to omit an assessment of an acquired business' internal control over financial reporting from management's assessment of internal control over financial reporting for a period not to exceed one year from the date of the acquisition.
Accordingly, management has not assessed IOTA's or Lucid's internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2018.
Excluding the acquisitions, there have been no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company’s most recent completed fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.The Company began integrating IOTA and Lucid into its existing control procedures from their respective dates of acquisition.
The Company does not anticipate the integration of the acquired companies to result in changes that would materially affect its internal control over financial reporting.
OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1.Legal Proceedings


The Company is subject to various other legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability claims, and employment matters.
The Company is self-insured up to specified limits for certain types of claims, including product liability, and is fully self-insured for certain other types of claims, including environmental, product recall, and patent infringement.
Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of any such pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company.
However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company in future periods.
The Company establishes reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated.
The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims.
However, the Company cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Legal Proceedings in the Company’s Form 10-K. Information set forth in this report’s Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes any legal proceedings that became reportable during the quarter ended May 31, 2018, and updates any descriptions of previously reported legal proceedings in which there have been material developments during such quarter.
The discussion of legal proceedings included within the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated into this Item 1 by reference.
Item 1a.Risk Factors

There have been no material changes in the Company’s risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1a.
Risk Factors of the Company’s Form 10-K.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Item 5.Other Information

Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation

On June 29, 2018, the Company entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks, consisting of JP Morgan as the administrative agent and other lenders as parties thereto, that provides the Company with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“New Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (“Term Loan Facility”).
Available borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, working capital, refinancing indebtedness under the prior Revolving Credit Facility, share repurchases, and non-hostile acquisitions.
The New Revolving Credit Facility replaced the Company's $250.0 million Revolving Credit Facility with a syndicate of banks,consisting of JP Morgan as the administrative agent and other lenders as parties thereto, which was scheduled to mature on August 27, 2019.
Generally, amounts outstanding under the New Revolving Credit Facility allow for borrowings to bear interest at either the Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate at the Company's option.
Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S.
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the LIBOR for the applicable currency plus an applicable margin.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.375%.
Base Rate advances bear interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
The base rate applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.0% to 0.375%.
The Term Loan Facility allows for borrowings to be drawn over a one-year period ending June 29, 2019, utilizing up to four separate installments, and are U.S. dollar denominated.
Borrowings under the Term Loan Facility will amortize in equal quarterly installments of 2.5% per year in year one, 2.5% per year in year two, 5.0% per year in year three, 5.0% per year in year four, and 7.5% per year in year five.
Any remaining borrowings under the Term Loan Facility are due and payable in full on June 29, 2023.
The Term Loan Facility allows for borrowings to bear interest at either a Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate, at the Company’s option.
Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S.
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to LIBOR for the applicable currency plus an applicable margin.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.250%.
Base Rate advances bear interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
The base rate applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.0% to 0.25%.
The Company is required to pay certain fees in connection with the Credit Agreement, including administrative service fees and annual facility fees.
The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by the Company’s leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement.
The facility fee ranges from 0.125% to 0.250% of the aggregate $800.0 million commitment of the lenders under the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement contains contains customary covenants regarding the preservation and maintenance of our corporate existence, material compliance with laws, payment of taxes, and maintenance of insurance and of our properties.The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest expense coverage ratio (“New Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“New Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to EBITDA, as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement.
These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period.
The Credit Agreement generally allows for a New Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a New Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50, subject to certain conditions defined in the financing agreement.
The Credit Agreement includes customary events of default, including, but not limited to, the failure to pay any interest, principal or fees when due, the failure to perform any covenant or agreement, inaccurate or false representations or warranties, insolvency or bankruptcy, change of control, the occurrence of certain ERISA events and judgment defaults.
Declaration of Dividend

On June 29, 2018, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share.
The dividend is payable on August 1, 2018 to stockholders of record on July 18, 2018.
Item 6.Exhibits

Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.C of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
EXHIBIT 10(1)Five-Year Credit Agreement dated June 29, 2019.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 31(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 32(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
