Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Item 5.Other Information

Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation

On June 29, 2018, the Company entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks, consisting of JP Morgan as the administrative agent and other lenders as parties thereto, that provides the Company with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“New Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (“Term Loan Facility”).
Available borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, working capital, refinancing indebtedness under the prior Revolving Credit Facility, share repurchases, and non-hostile acquisitions.
The New Revolving Credit Facility replaced the Company's $250.0 million Revolving Credit Facility with a syndicate of banks,consisting of JP Morgan as the administrative agent and other lenders as parties thereto, which was scheduled to mature on August 27, 2019.
Generally, amounts outstanding under the New Revolving Credit Facility allow for borrowings to bear interest at either the Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate at the Company's option.
Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S.
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the LIBOR for the applicable currency plus an applicable margin.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.375%.
Base Rate advances bear interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
The base rate applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.0% to 0.375%.
The Term Loan Facility allows for borrowings to be drawn over a one-year period ending June 29, 2019, utilizing up to four separate installments, and are U.S. dollar denominated.
Borrowings under the Term Loan Facility will amortize in equal quarterly installments of 2.5% per year in year one, 2.5% per year in year two, 5.0% per year in year three, 5.0% per year in year four, and 7.5% per year in year five.
Any remaining borrowings under the Term Loan Facility are due and payable in full on June 29, 2023.
The Term Loan Facility allows for borrowings to bear interest at either a Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate, at the Company’s option.
Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S.
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to LIBOR for the applicable currency plus an applicable margin.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.250%.
Base Rate advances bear interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
The base rate applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.0% to 0.25%.
The Company is required to pay certain fees in connection with the Credit Agreement, including administrative service fees and annual facility fees.
The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by the Company’s leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement.
The facility fee ranges from 0.125% to 0.250% of the aggregate $800.0 million commitment of the lenders under the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement contains contains customary covenants regarding the preservation and maintenance of our corporate existence, material compliance with laws, payment of taxes, and maintenance of insurance and of our properties.The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest expense coverage ratio (“New Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“New Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to EBITDA, as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement.
These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period.
The Credit Agreement generally allows for a New Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a New Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50, subject to certain conditions defined in the financing agreement.
The Credit Agreement includes customary events of default, including, but not limited to, the failure to pay any interest, principal or fees when due, the failure to perform any covenant or agreement, inaccurate or false representations or warranties, insolvency or bankruptcy, change of control, the occurrence of certain ERISA events and judgment defaults.
Declaration of Dividend

On June 29, 2018, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share.
The dividend is payable on August 1, 2018 to stockholders of record on July 18, 2018.
Item 6.Exhibits

Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.C of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
EXHIBIT 10(1)Five-Year Credit Agreement dated June 29, 2019.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 31(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 32(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
