fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019, did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
The New Lease Standard had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet due to the recognition of right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2019 are presented under the New Lease Standard, while prior period results have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
We elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess 1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, 2) lease classification for existing leases and 3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from non-lease components for all underlying asset classes.
Finance lease ROU assets at March 31, 2019 of $2,783 are included in property and equipment, net in our consolidated balance sheet.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1-9 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to five years.
Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
These operating leases are expected to commence in 2019 with lease terms of 5-11 years.
These undiscounted amounts are not included in the table above.
We maintain an unsecured, $500,000 syndicated multicurrency revolving credit agreement, which we use to fund seasonal working capital needs and for other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, dividends (if and as declared by our Board of Directors), capital expenditures, stock repurchases and issuances of letters of credit.


item2.txt
Other significant selling, general and administrative expenses relate to the operation of warehouse facilities, including a fleet of trucks and forklifts, and facility rent, a majority of which facilities we operate under non-cancelable operating leases.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter.
In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products.
In 2011, we formed a second joint venture with Carrier and completed two additional transactions.
In 2012, we formed a third joint venture, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise III, with UTC Canada Corporation, referred to as UTC Canada, an affiliate of Carrier.
Our critical accounting policies are included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2019.
We believe that there have been no significant changes during the quarter ended March 31, 2019 to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
In the following narratives, computations and other information referring to “same-store basis” exclude the effects of locations closed, acquired, or locations opened, unless they are within close geographical proximity to existing locations, during the immediately preceding 12 months.
For HVAC equipment, the increase in revenues was primarily due to realization of price increases and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices, resulting in a 2% increase in the average selling price, partially offset by a 1% decrease in volume.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 remained consistent at 19.3% as compared to the same period in 2018.
On a same-store basis, selling, general and administrative expenses were flat as compared to the same period in 2018 and declined 10 basis-points to 19.2% as a percent of revenues.
Interest expense, net, for the first quarter of 2019 increased $0.2 million, or 37%, primarily as a result of an increase in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a lower effective interest rate for the 2019 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
filed herewith.


