fls.txt
We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
We elected the package of practical expedients which did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from non-lease components for all underlying asset classes.
Finance lease ROU assets at June 30, 2019 of $2,759 are included in property and equipment, net in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component.
Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Such leases had estimated future minimum rental commitments of approximately $17,000.
These undiscounted amounts are not included in the table above.
Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and subsequent to the purchase operates as a stand-alone subsidiary of the Company with 16 locations in the Northeastern U.S. On June 21, 2017, our first joint venture with Carrier, Carrier Enterprise, LLC, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, acquired a 34.9% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 30 locations in the Western U.S. We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, and Carrier has a 20% non-controlling interest.
Carrier Enterprise I acquired its ownership interest in RSI for cash consideration of $63,600, of which we contributed $50,880 and Carrier contributed $12,720.


item2.txt
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
In 2011, we formed a second joint venture with Carrier and completed two additional transactions.
In 2012, we formed a third joint venture, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise III, with UTC Canada Corporation, referred to as UTC Canada, an affiliate of Carrier.
10-Q, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
In the following narratives, computations and other information referring to “same-store basis” exclude the effects of locations closed, acquired, or locations opened, unless they are within close geographical proximity to existing locations, during the immediately preceding 12 months.
At both June 30, 2019 and 2018, 8 locations opened were near existing locations and were therefore included in “same-store basis” information.
Gross profit for the second quarter of 2019 increased $7.2 million, or 2%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2019 increased $10.0 million, or 5%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 increased to 14.3% versus 14.0% for the same period in 2018.
Excluding new locations opened or acquired during the last 12 months, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $4.6 million, or 2%.
Interest expense, net for the second quarter of 2019 increased $0.4 million, or 59%, primarily as a result of an increase in average outstanding borrowings and a higher effective interest rate for the 2019 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2018.
The effective income tax rates attributable to us were 21.7% and 23.8% for the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Net Income Attributable to Watsco, Inc. Net income attributable to Watsco for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 increased $0.2 million compared to the same period in 2018. non-controlling interest related to the purchase of the additional 20% interest in Homans, partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses and interest expense as discussed above.
For residential HVAC equipment, the increase in revenues was primarily due to realization of price increases and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices, resulting in a 3% increase in the average selling price.


item4.txt



part2.txt



