fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
These reclassifications had no effect on net income or earnings per share as previously reported.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued a standard on revenue recognition that provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
The standard is principle-based and provides a five-step model to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized.
In 2015 and 2016, the FASB issued several updates to this standard.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance related to certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
A cumulative-effect adjustment captured the previously held unrealized losses of $301 related to our equity investment carried at fair value.
In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
We are in the process of collecting data and designing processes and controls to account for our leases in accordance with the new guidance.
Our current minimum lease commitments are disclosed in Note 16 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period results have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
Total service revenue is not material and accounted for less than 1% of our consolidated revenues for both the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2018.
Revenue is recognized when control transfers to our customers when picked up or via shipment of products or delivery of services.
Revenue for shipping and handling charges is recognized when products are delivered to the customer.


item2.txt
Other significant selling, general and administrative expenses relate to the operation of warehouse facilities, including a fleet of trucks and forklifts, and facility rent, which are payable mostly under non-cancelable operating leases.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter.
In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products.
Neither Watsco nor Carrier has any remaining options to purchase additional ownership interests in Carrier Enterprise I or any of our other joint ventures with Carrier, which are described below.
In 2011, we formed a second joint venture with Carrier and completed two additional transactions.
On November 29, 2016, we purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, and, on February 13, 2017, we again purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, which together increased our controlling interest to 80%.
Our critical accounting policies are included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018.
We believe that there have been no significant changes during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
We did not acquire any material businesses during 2018 or 2017.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $54.0 million, or 4%, as compared to the same period in 2017, reflecting a 6% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales), which included a 6% increase in residential HVAC equipment and a 5% increase in commercial HVAC equipment, a 5% increase in sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) and a 1% increase in sales of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).
Revenues from sales of residential HVAC equipment also benefited from an improved sales mix of higher-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices.


item4.txt



part2.txt



