fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
These reclassifications had no effect on net income or earnings per share as previously reported.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued a standard on revenue recognition that provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
The standard is principle-based and provides a five-step model to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized.
In 2015 and 2016, the FASB issued several updates to this standard.
A cumulative-effect adjustment captured the previously held unrealized losses of $301 related to our equity securities carried at fair value.
In July 2018, updated guidance was issued which provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
We will adopt the guidance on January 1, 2019 using this additional transition method and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
We are in the process of collecting data and designing processes and controls to account for our leases in accordance with the new guidance.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period results have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
Total service revenue is not material and accounted for less than 1% of our consolidated revenues for both the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Revenue is recognized when control transfers to our customers when picked up or via shipment of products or delivery of services.
Revenue for shipping and handling charges is recognized when products are delivered to the customer.
Substantially all customer returns relate to products that are returned under manufacturers’ warranty obligations.
Sales incentives are accounted for as a reduction in the transaction price and are generally paid on an annual basis.


item2.txt
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter.
In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products.
In 2011, we formed a second joint venture with Carrier and completed two additional transactions.
On November 29, 2016, we purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, and, on February 13, 2017, we again purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, which together increased our controlling interest to 80%.
Our critical accounting policies are included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018.
Refer to Note 1 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recently adopted and not yet adopted accounting standards.
We did not acquire any material businesses during 2018 or 2017.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $66.8 million, or 5%, as compared to the same period in 2017, reflecting a 7% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales), which included a 6% increase in residential HVAC equipment and a 9% increase in commercial HVAC equipment, a 4% increase in sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) and flat sales of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).
The increase in same-store revenues was primarily due to realization of price increases, demand for the replacement of residential and commercial HVAC equipment and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased to 15.5% versus 14.9% for the same period in 2017.
Net interest expense for the third quarter of 2018 decreased $1.1 million, or 51%, primarily as a result of a decrease in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a higher effective interest rate for the 2018 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt
filed herewith.


