fls.txt
We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
that did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment, and finance leases primarily for vehicles.
Finance lease ROU assets at September 30, 2019 of $2,960 are included in property and equipment, net in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
other long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.
Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
At September 30, 2019, we had additional operating leases, primarily for real property, that had not yet commenced.


item2.txt
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
In 2012, we formed a third joint venture, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise III, with UTC Canada Corporation, referred to as UTC Canada, an affiliate of Carrier.
10-Q, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
In the following narratives, computations and other information referring to “same-store basis” exclude the effects of locations closed, acquired, or locations opened, unless they are within close geographical proximity to existing locations, during the immediately preceding 12 months.
Gross profit margin for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 declined 60 basis-points to 24.0% versus 24.6% for the same period in 2018, primarily due to the benefit of Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of 2019 increased $12.5 million, or 6%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 decreased to 15.3% versus 15.5% for the same period in 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses included $1.5 million of additional costs for 2019 in excess of 2018 for ongoing technology initiatives, driven in part by our acquisition of Alert Labs in August 2018.
On a same-store basis, selling, general and administrative expenses were flat as compared to the same period in 2018.
Interest expense, net for the third quarter of 2019 increased $0.4 million, or 37%, primarily as a result of increase in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a lower effective interest rate due to higher interest income for the 2019 period, as compared to the same period in 2018.
Gross profit margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 declined 30 basis-points to 24.2% versus 24.5% for the same period in 2018, primarily due to the benefit of Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $24.0 million, or 4%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues remained consistent at 15.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses included $4.3 million of additional costs for 2019 in excess of 2018 for ongoing technology initiatives, driven in part by our acquisition of Alert Labs in August 2018.
Interest expense, net for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $1.0 million, or 44%, primarily as a result of an increase in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a lower effective interest rate due to higher interest income for the 2019 period, as compared to the same period in 2018.
Income taxes decreased to $60.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to $63.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and represent a composite of the income taxes attributable to our wholly owned operations and income taxes attributable to the Carrier joint ventures, which are primarily taxed as partnerships for income tax purposes; therefore, Carrier is responsible for its proportionate share of income taxes attributable to its share of earnings from these joint ventures.


item4.txt
13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“the Exchange Act”)) that are, among other things, designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Executive Vice President (“EVP”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure and appropriate SEC filings.


