Item 1.
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)
NETAPP, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
NETAPP, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
NETAPP, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
NETAPP, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
NETAPP, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.
Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies
NetApp, Inc. (we, us, or the Company) provides global organizations the ability to manage and share their data across on-premises, private and public clouds.
Together with our partners, we provide a full range of enterprise-class software, systems and services solutions that customers use to modernize their infrastructures, build next generation data centers and harness the power of hybrid clouds.
Basis of Presentation and Preparation
Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week year ending on the last Friday in April.
An additional week is included in the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years to realign fiscal months with calendar months.
Fiscal years 2019 and 2018, ending on April 26, 2019, and April 27, 2018, respectively, are each 52-week years, with 13 weeks in each of their quarters.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company, and reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income and cash flows for the interim periods presented.
The statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for interim financial information.
Accordingly, these statements do not include all information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual consolidated financial statements, and should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2018 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The results of operations for the three months ended July 27, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full fiscal year or future operating periods.
The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; valuation of investment securities; income taxes and fair value measurements.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
 Accounting Changes
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new standard, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), which establishes a comprehensive new revenue recognition model designed to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
In the three months ended July 27, 2018, we adopted this new standard using the full retrospective method of adoption.
Accordingly, our prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and information, as presented herein, have been restated to conform to the new rules.
Refer to Note 6 – Revenue for a summary of the impacts of adopting this standard, and a discussion of our updated policies related to revenue recognition.
In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update (ASU) which eliminates the deferred tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory.
As a result, tax expense from the sale of an asset in the seller’s tax jurisdiction is recognized when the transfer occurs, even though the pre-tax effects of that transaction are eliminated in consolidation.
In the three months ended July 27, 2018, we adopted this ASU using a modified retrospective transition approach and recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings by $51 million, with a corresponding reduction of prepaid taxes, which were classified as other non-current assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, as of the beginning of the period.
In November 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that requires a statement of cash flows to explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents.
In the three months ended July 27, 2018, we adopted this ASU using a retrospective transition method.
Accordingly, our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended July 28, 2017, as presented herein, has been restated to comply with the new requirements.
Refer to Note 5 – Supplemental Financial Information for a detail of the components of our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash balances.
There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the three months ended July 27, 2018, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2018.
2.
Recent Accounting Standards Not Yet Effective
Leases
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on financial reporting for leasing arrangements, including requiring lessees to recognize an operating lease with a term greater than one year on their balance sheets as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020, although early adoption is permitted.
Upon adoption, the new standard, as amended, allows lessees to apply the transition requirements either (1) retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented in the financial statements with the cumulative effect of applying the new rules recognized at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented, or (2) retrospectively at the beginning of the period of adoption with the cumulative effect of applying the new rules recognized then.
We are currently in the assessment phase to determine the adoption methodology and are evaluating the impact of this new standard on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report.
Credit Losses on Financial Instruments
In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments.
The standard introduces a new model for measuring and recognizing credit losses on financial instruments, requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted.
Upon adoption, companies must apply a modified retrospective transition approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings, though a prospective transition approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date.
Based on the composition of our investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
3.
Statements of Cash Flows Additional Information
4.
Purchased Intangible Assets, Net
5.
Supplemental Financial Information
In September 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell certain land and buildings located in Sunnyvale, California, through two separate and independent closings, the first of which was completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The remaining properties, consisting of land with a net book value of $52 million, were classified as assets held for sale, and included as other current assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018.
We will consummate the sale of these properties, and receive cash proceeds of $96 million, upon the completion of the second closing, which is expected to occur within the next 12 months.
That closing is subject to due diligence, certain termination rights and customary closing conditions, including local governmental approval of the subdivision of a land parcel.
Warranty expense accrued during the period includes amounts accrued for systems at the time of shipment, adjustments for changes in estimated costs for warranties on systems shipped in the period and changes in estimated costs for warranties on systems shipped in prior periods.
 Effective our first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted ASC 606 using the full retrospective method and have restated each prior reporting period presented to conform to the new rules.
The most significant impact of the new standard relates to our accounting for arrangements containing software.
For our enterprise software license agreements (ELAs), we now recognize the license fee component of such arrangements up front.
Under the prior rules, the software license fee was recognized over the term of the enterprise license based on our inability to establish vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for the undelivered software support element of these arrangements.
In addition, for other software arrangements, revenue deferred for the undelivered elements that was previously allocated based on the residual method is now allocated based on relative fair value, which generally results in more software arrangement revenue being recognized earlier.
The new standard also impacts our estimation of variable consideration for certain arrangements with contract terms such as rights of return, potential penalties and acceptance clauses.
Netting of accounts receivable and deferred revenue balances for certain customer arrangements has been updated to reflect the impact of adoption
Reflects capitalization of commissions and reduction of long-term deferred tax assets
Reflects cumulative change in revenue and the impact of adoption to the netting of accounts receivable and deferred revenue balances for certain customer arrangements
Reflects increase in long-term deferred tax liabilities
Reflects cumulative impact to net income (loss)
 The adoption of ASC 606 had no impact to cash provided by or used in operating, investing or financing activities as presented on our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
 The core principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
This principle is achieved through applying the following five-step approach.
•
Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer — A contract with a customer exists when (i) we enter into an enforceable contract with a customer that (ii) defines each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred and (iii) identifies the payment terms related to these goods or services.
Additionally, (iv) the contract has commercial substance and, (v) we determine that collection of substantially all consideration for goods or services that are transferred is probable based on the customer’s intent and ability to pay the promised consideration.
We apply judgment in determining the
customer’s ability and intention to pay, which is based on a variety of factors including the customer’s historical payment experience or, in the case of a new customer, published credit and financial information pertaining to the customer.
We also combine two or more contracts entered into at or near the same time with the same customer as a single contract if the contracts are negotiated as one package with a single commercial objective, the amount of consideration to be paid on one contract depends on the price or performance of the other contract or if the goods and services promised in each of the contracts are a single performance obligation.
•
Identification of the performance obligations in the contract — Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the goods or services (or a bundle of goods and services) that will be transferred to the customer that are distinct.
A good or service is distinct if it is capable of being distinct, where the customer can benefit from the goods or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and is distinct in the context of the contract, meaning the transfer of the goods or services is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.
To the extent a contract includes multiple promised goods or services, we apply judgment to determine whether promised goods or services are capable of being distinct and distinct in the context of the contract.
If these criteria are not met, we combine the goods and services until we have a distinct performance obligation.
•
Determination of the transaction price — The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer.
Consideration promised may include fixed amounts, variable amounts or both.
We use judgment in determining variable consideration, particularly if consideration is contingent on the occurrence or nonoccurrence of a future event.
We use the expected value, primarily relying on our history, to estimate variable consideration.
We may also use, in certain situations, the most likely amount as the basis of our estimate.
In either case, we consider variable consideration only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur.
Reassessments of our variable consideration may occur as historical information changes.
Transaction prices should also be adjusted for the effects of time value of money if the timing of payments provides either the customer or ourselves a significant benefit of financing.
•
Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract — If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price basis.
We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
Variable consideration is also allocated to the performance obligations.
If the terms of variable consideration relate to one performance obligation, it is entirely allocated to that obligation.
Otherwise, it is allocated to all the performance obligations in the contract.
•
Recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation — We satisfy performance obligations either over time or at a point in time.
We typically recognize revenue at a point in time for promises to transfer goods to a customer.
Services are typically transferred over time based on an appropriate method for measuring our progress toward completion of that performance obligation.
Our stand-ready services, including both hardware and software maintenance support, are transferred ratably over the period of the contract.
For other services such as our fixed professional services contract, we use an input method to determine the percentage of completion.
That is, we estimate the effort to date versus the expected effort required over the life of the contract.
Disaggregation of revenue
 To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we group our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions.
Strategic solutions include Clustered ONTAP, branded E-Series, SolidFire, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure, ELAs and other optional add-on software products.
Mature solutions include 7-mode ONTAP, add-on hardware and related operating system (OS) software and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) products.
Both our Mature and Strategic product lines include a mix of disk, hybrid and all flash storage media.
Additionally, we provide a variety of services including software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services including professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training.
 Revenues by geographic region are presented in Note 15 – Segment, Geographic, and Significant Customer Information.
Deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue
Deferred product revenue represents unrecognized revenue related to undelivered product commitments and other product deliveries that have not met all revenue recognition criteria.
Deferred services revenue represents customer payments made in advance for services, which include software and hardware maintenance contracts and other services.
Financed unearned services revenue represents undelivered services for which cash has been received under certain third-party financing arrangements.
See Note 16 – Commitments and Contingencies for additional information related to these arrangements.
 During the three months ended July 27, 2018 and July 28, 2017, we recognized $561 million and $528 million, respectively, that was included in the deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue balance at the beginning of the respective periods.
 As of July 27, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations related to customer contracts that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied was $3,260 million, which is equivalent to our deferred revenue and unearned services revenue balance.
Because customer orders are typically placed on an as-needed basis, and cancellable without penalty prior to shipment, orders in backlog may not be a meaningful indicator of future revenue and have not been included in this
amount.
We expect to recognize as revenue approximately 50% of our deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue balance in the next 12 months, approximately 26% in the next 13 to 24 months, and the remainder thereafter.
Deferred commissions
7.
Other income, net
8.
Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements
We consider an active market to be one in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis, and consider an inactive market to be one in which there are infrequent or few transactions for the asset or liability, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market makers.
Where appropriate, our own or the counterparty’s non-performance risk is considered in measuring the fair values of liabilities and assets, respectively.
Investments
 As of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018, the unrealized losses on our available-for-sale investments were caused by market value declines as a result of increasing market interest rates.
Because the declines in market value are attributable to changes in market conditions and not credit quality, and because we have determined that (i) we do not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii) it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis, we have determined that no other-than-temporary impairments were required to be recognized on these investments as of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018.
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Reported as other current assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets
Reported as other non-current assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets
Our Level 2 debt instruments are held by a custodian who prices some of the investments using standard inputs in various asset price models or obtains investment prices from third-party pricing providers that incorporate standard inputs in various asset price models.
These pricing providers utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available for these securities, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities.
We review Level 2 inputs and fair value for reasonableness and the values may be further validated by comparison to multiple independent pricing sources.
In addition, we review third-party pricing provider models, key inputs and assumptions and understand
the pricing processes at our third-party providers in determining the overall reasonableness of the fair value of our Level 2 debt instruments.
As of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018, we have not made any adjustments to the prices obtained from our third-party pricing providers.
Fair Value of Debt
As of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018, the fair value of our long-term debt was approximately $1,518 million and $1,523 million, respectively.
The fair value of our long-term debt was based on observable market prices in a less active market.
The fair value of our commercial paper notes approximated their carrying value.
All of our debt obligations are categorized as Level 2 instruments.
Long-Term Debt
Senior Notes
 Our 2.00% Senior Notes and 3.30% Senior Notes, each with a principal amount of $400 million, were issued in September 2017.
Interest on these Senior Notes is paid semi-annually in March and September.
Our 3.375% Senior Notes and 3.25% Senior Notes, with principal amounts of $500 million and $250 million, respectively, were issued in June 2014 and December 2012, respectively.
Interest on these Senior Notes is paid semi-annually in June and December.
Our Senior Notes, which are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations, rank equally in right of payment with any existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness.
We may redeem the Senior Notes in whole or in part, at any time at our option at specified redemption prices.
In addition, upon the occurrence of certain change of control triggering events, we may be required to repurchase the Senior Notes under specified terms.
The Senior Notes also include covenants that limit our ability to incur debt secured by liens on assets or on shares of stock or indebtedness of our subsidiaries; to engage in certain sale and lease-back transactions; and to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.
As of July 27, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants associated with the Senior Notes.
Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facility
We have a commercial paper program (the Program), under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes.
Amounts available under the Program, as amended in July 2017, may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed, with the aggregate face or principal amount of the notes outstanding under the Program at any time not to exceed $1.0 billion.
The maturities of the notes can vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue.
The notes are sold under customary terms in the commercial paper market and may be issued at a discount from par or, alternatively, may be sold at par and bear interest at rates dictated by market conditions at the time of their issuance.
The proceeds from the issuance of the notes are used for general corporate purposes.
As of July 27, 2018, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $200 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 2.28% and maturities ranging from 14 days to 31 days.
As of April 27, 2018, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $385 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 2.29% and maturities ranging from 19 days to 32 days.
In connection with the Program, we have a senior unsecured credit agreement with a syndicated group of lenders that expires on December 10, 2021.
The credit agreement, as amended in July 2017, provides a $1.0 billion revolving unsecured credit facility, with a $50 million letter of credit sub-facility, that serves as a back-up for the Program.
Proceeds from the facility may also be used for general corporate purposes to the extent that the credit facility exceeds the outstanding debt issued under the Program.
The credit agreement includes options that allow us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $300 million and to extend its maturity date for two additional one-year periods, both subject to certain conditions.
As of July 27, 2018 we were in compliance with all associated covenants in this agreement.
No amounts were drawn against this facility during any of the periods presented.
Equity Incentive Awards
As of July 27, 2018, we have certain equity incentive awards (awards) outstanding, which include stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), including time-based RSUs and performance-based RSUs (PBRSUs), and Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) awards.
Stock Options
The aggregate intrinsic value represents the pre-tax difference between the exercise price of stock options and the quoted market price of our stock on that day for all in-the-money options.
Restricted Stock Units
In the three months ended July 27, 2018, we granted PBRSUs to certain of our executives.
Each PBRSU has performance-based vesting criteria, in addition to the service based vesting criteria, such that the PBRSUs cliff-vest at the end of an approximate three year performance period, which began on the date specified in the grant agreements and ends the last day of fiscal 2021.
The number of shares of common stock that will be issued to settle the PBRSUs at the end of the applicable performance and service period will range from 0% to 200% of a target number of shares originally granted.
For half of the PBRSUs granted in the current quarter, the number of shares issued will depend upon our Total Stockholder Return (TSR) as compared to the TSR of a specified group of benchmark peer companies (each expressed as a growth rate percentage) calculated as of the end of fiscal 2021.
The fair values of these awards were fixed at grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
For the remaining PBRSUs granted, the number of
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
As of July 27, 2018, total unrecognized compensation expense related to our equity awards was $362 million, which is expected to be recognized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average remaining service period of 2.5 years.
Stock Repurchase Program
Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $13.6 billion of our common stock.
Under this program, which we may suspend or discontinue at any time, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through solicited or unsolicited transactions in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, through accelerated share repurchase programs, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan or in such other manner as deemed appropriate by our management.
The aggregate purchase price of our stock repurchases for the three months ended July 27, 2018 consisted of $500 million of open market purchases, of which $277 million and $223 million were allocated to additional paid-in capital and retained earnings (accumulated deficit), respectively.
Since the May 13, 2003 inception of our stock repurchase program through July 27, 2018, we repurchased a total of 291 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $34.79 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $10.1 billion.
Dividends
On August 15, 2018, we declared a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock, payable on October 24, 2018 to holders of record as of the close of business on October 5, 2018.
The timing and amount of future dividends will depend on market conditions, corporate business and financial considerations and regulatory requirements.
All dividends declared have been determined by us to be legally authorized under the laws of the state in which we are incorporated.
Retained Earnings (Accumulated Deficit)
In the three months ended July 27, 2018, we adopted an ASU that eliminates the deferred tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory and recorded the cumulative-effect of adoption to retained earnings (accumulated deficit).
Refer to Note 1 – Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies for details.
11.
Derivatives and Hedging Activities
We use derivative instruments to manage exposures to foreign currency risk.
Our primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The program is not designated for trading or speculative purposes.
Our derivatives expose us to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of our agreements with them.
We seek to mitigate such risk by limiting our counterparties to major financial institutions.
In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one counterparty resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
We also have in place master netting arrangements to mitigate the credit risk of our counterparties and to potentially reduce our losses due to counterparty nonperformance.
We present our derivative instruments as net amounts in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The gross and net fair value amounts of such instruments were not material as of July 27, 2018 or April 27, 2018.
We did not recognize any gains or losses in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness for any period presented.
All contracts have a maturity of less than six months.
As of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018, there were no instruments designated as cash flow hedges outstanding.
During the three months ended July 27, 2018, we announced a restructuring plan (the May 2018 Plan) to reduce costs and redirect resources to our highest return activities, which included a reduction in our global workforce of less than 2%.
Charges related to the plan consisted primarily of employee severance-related costs.
We expect to complete the May 2018 Plan by the second quarter of fiscal 2019 with no significant additional charges incurred.
Management previously approved the November 2016 Plan, under which we reduced our global workforce by approximately 6%.
We completed all workforce related activities under this plan as of the end of fiscal 2017.
The remaining balance as of July 27, 2018 principally relates to lease obligations that will be paid over their remaining terms.
 Our effective tax rates reflect the impact of a significant amount of our earnings, primarily income from our European operations which are headquartered in the Netherlands, being taxed in foreign jurisdictions at rates below the United States (U.S.) statutory tax rate.
The differences in effective tax rates for the three months ended July 27, 2018 and July 28, 2017 were primarily related to the adoption of the new revenue standard and differences in discrete benefits for stock-based compensation.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended July 28, 2017 has been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the new revenue standard.
During the three months ended July 27, 2018, we recognized a $34 million discrete tax benefit for adjustments to certain intercompany transactions resulting from the retrospective application of the new standard.
See Note 6 – Revenue for additional details.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) was enacted into law.
The TCJA made significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system including a reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, the imposition of a
one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings, and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings.
As of July 27, 2018, we have not fully completed the accounting for the tax impacts of the TCJA.
No significant adjustments to prior period estimates or positions have been made in the current period.
The provisional amounts recorded are based on reasonable estimates and our current interpretation and understanding of the TCJA.
The final impacts of U.S. tax reform may differ, possibly materially, due to factors such as the issuance of further regulatory guidance, changes in interpretations, and the collection and analysis of additional information.
The Company is also still evaluating the effects of the TCJA’s global minimum tax on intangible low-taxed income (“GMT”) and has not yet made an accounting policy election to either account for the tax under a period cost method or a deferred method.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we have accounted for the GMT under a period cost method as we continue to evaluate potential impacts.
In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, we will complete the accounting of the tax effects of the TCJA within the measurement period not to extend beyond one year from the enactment date.
 As of July 27, 2018, we had $351 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits.
Inclusive of penalties, interest and certain income tax benefits, $301 million would affect our provision for income taxes if recognized, and $319 million has been recorded in other long-term liabilities.
We are currently undergoing federal income tax audits in the U.S. and several foreign tax jurisdictions.
Transfer pricing calculations are key issues under audits in various jurisdictions, and are often subject to dispute and appeals.
The IRS has concluded the examination of our tax returns for our fiscal years through 2010.
The IRS commenced the examination of our federal income tax returns for our fiscal years 2012 and 2013 in August 2016.
In September 2010, the Danish Tax Authorities issued a decision concluding that distributions declared in 2005 and 2006 by our Danish subsidiary were subject to Danish at-source dividend withholding tax.
We do not believe that our Danish subsidiary is liable for such withholding tax and filed an appeal with the Danish Tax Tribunal.
In December 2011, the Danish Tax Tribunal issued a ruling in favor of NetApp.
The Danish tax examination agency appealed this decision at the Danish High Court (DHC) in March 2012.
In February 2016, the DHC requested a preliminary ruling from the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU).
Parties were heard before the court in October 2017.
During March 2018, the Advocate General issued an opinion which was largely in favor of NetApp, however, the CJEU is not bound by the opinion of the Advocate General.
It is expected that the preliminary ruling will be issued during our fiscal year 2019.
Once a ruling has been issued by the CJEU, it will be reviewed and may be subjected to additional briefing by the DHC.
Once complete, the DHC will issue its final decision.
We expect this decision to be complete during our fiscal year 2019 or 2020.
We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.
We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude, certain statutes of limitations will lapse, or both.
As a result of uncertainties regarding tax audits and their possible outcomes, an estimate of the range of possible impacts to unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months cannot be made at this time.
14.
Net Income per Share
No potential shares from outstanding employee equity awards were excluded from the diluted net income per share calculation for the three months ended July 27, 2018.
For the three months ended July 28, 2017, 2 million potential shares from outstanding awards were excluded from the calculation as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.
15.
Segment, Geographic, and Significant Customer Information
Americas revenues consist of sales to Americas commercial and U.S. public sector markets.
Sales to customers inside the U.S. were $761 million and $639 million during the three months ended July 27, 2018 and July 28, 2017, respectively.
16.
Commitments and Contingencies
Operating Leases
We lease various equipment, vehicles and office space in the U.S. and internationally.
Future annual minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year totaled $184 million as of July 27, 2018.
Purchase Orders and Other Commitments
In the ordinary course of business, we make commitments to third-party contract manufacturers to manage manufacturer lead times and meet product forecasts, and to other parties to purchase various key components used in the manufacturing of our products.
A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional commitments.
As of July 27, 2018, we had $382 million in non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory.
We record a liability for firm, non-cancelable and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory.
As of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018, such liability amounted to $22 million and $14 million, respectively, and is included in accrued expenses in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
To the extent that such forecasts are not achieved, our commitments and associated accruals may change.
In addition to inventory commitments with contract manufacturers and component suppliers, we have open purchase orders and contractual obligations associated with our ordinary course of business for which we have not yet received goods or services.
As of July 27, 2018, we had $5 million in construction related obligations and $195 million in other purchase obligations.
Financing Guarantees
While most of our arrangements for sales include short-term payment terms, from time to time we provide long-term financing to creditworthy customers.
We have generally sold receivables financed through these arrangements on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions within 10 days of the contracts’ dates of execution, and we classify the proceeds from these sales as cash flows from operating activities in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
We account for the sales of these receivables as “true sales” as defined in the accounting standards on transfers of financial assets, as we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables.
Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize product revenues for these arrangements, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions, upon product acceptance.
We sold $30 million and $31 million of receivables during the three months ended July 27, 2018 and July 28, 2017, respectively.
In addition, we enter into arrangements with leasing companies for the sale of our hardware systems products.
These leasing companies, in turn, lease our products to end-users.
The leasing companies generally have no recourse to us in the event of default by the end-user and we recognize revenue upon delivery to the end-user customer, if all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.
Some of the leasing arrangements described above have been financed on a recourse basis through third-party financing institutions.
Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default.
These arrangements are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets.
Where we provide a guarantee for recourse leases, we recognize revenues in accordance with our revenue recognition policy, as updated to reflect the adoption of ASC 606.
In connection with certain recourse financing arrangements, we receive advance payments associated with undelivered elements that are subject to customer refund rights.
We defer revenue associated with these advance payments until the related refund rights expire and we perform the services.
As of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018, the aggregate amount by which such contingencies exceeded the associated liabilities was not significant.
To date, we have not experienced significant losses under our lease financing programs or other financing arrangements.
We have entered into service contracts with certain of our end-user customers that are supported by third-party financing arrangements.
If a service contract is terminated as a result of our non-performance under the contract or our failure to comply with the terms of the financing arrangement, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to acquire certain assets related to the service contract or to pay the aggregate unpaid financing payments under such arrangements.
As of July 27, 2018, we have not been required to make any payments under these arrangements, and we believe the likelihood of having to acquire a material amount of assets or make payments under these arrangements is remote.
The portion of the financial arrangement that represents unearned services revenue is included in deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Legal Contingencies
When a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable, we record a liability in the amount of our best estimate for the ultimate loss.
However, the likelihood of a loss with respect to a particular contingency is often difficult to predict and determining a meaningful estimate of the loss or a range of loss may not be practicable based on the information available and the potential effect of future events and decisions by third parties that will determine the ultimate resolution of the contingency.
 Although management at present believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not materially harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or overall trends, legal proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings or other events could occur.
Unfavorable resolutions could include significant monetary damages.
In addition, in matters for which injunctive relief or other conduct remedies are sought, unfavorable resolutions could include an injunction or other order prohibiting us from selling one or more products at all or in particular ways or requiring other remedies.
An unfavorable outcome may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends.
No material accrual has been recorded as of July 27, 2018 related to such matters.
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 16 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
The following descriptions of risk factors includes any material changes to, and supersedes the description of risk factors associated with, the Company’s business previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 27, 2018 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) (the “2018 Form 10-K”) under the heading “Risk Factors.” Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly cause our actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from the past, or from anticipated future, results of operations and financial condition.
Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and common stock price.
The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements.
These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-Q or elsewhere.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes in Part I, Item 1 – Financial Statements and Part I, Item 2 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-Q.
The following discussion reflects our current judgment regarding the most significant risks we face.
These risks can and will change in the future.
Our business may be harmed by trends in the networked storage hardware market or if we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological and market changes.
If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products while managing the transition from older products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality, service and support for our new products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and related services.
Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products and services, such products and services are subject to significant technical and quality control risks.
If we are unable, for technological, customer reluctance or other reasons, to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products and services, as and when required by the market and our customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.
avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and related components and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers’ demands.
Further risks inherent in new product and solutions introductions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors’ responses to the introductions, delays in sales caused by the desire of customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time and our partners’ investment in selling our new products and solutions.
If these risks are not managed effectively, we could experience material risks to our operations, financial condition and business model.
As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition.
We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
Our new consumption-based business models may adversely affect our revenues and profitability.
We offer customers a full range of consumption models, including the deployment of our software through our subscription and cloud-based Software as a Service (SaaS), and utility pricing and managed services offerings for our hardware and software systems.
These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption-based offerings.
Additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and SaaS delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise hardware and software offerings and could have a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premise hardware and software product and service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability, at least in the near term.
If we do not successfully execute our consumption model strategy or anticipate the needs of our customers, our revenues and profitability could decline.
As customer demand for our consumption model offerings increases, we will experience differences in the timing of revenue recognition between our traditional hardware and software license arrangements, including for the software license components of enterprise software license agreements, (for which revenue is generally recognized in full at the time of delivery), relative to our consumption model offerings, (for which revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement).
We incur certain expenses associated with the infrastructure and marketing of our consumption model offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings.
Our sales and distribution structure makes forecasting revenues difficult and, if disrupted, could harm our operating results.
Increasing competition and industry consolidation could harm our business and operating results.
The storage and data management markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology and fragmentation.
We compete with many companies in the markets we serve, including established public companies, newly public companies with a strong flash focus, and new market entrants addressing the growing opportunity for hyper-converged systems.
Some offer a broad spectrum of IT products and services (full-stack vendors) and others offer a more limited set of storage and data management products or services.
Technology trends, such as the emergence of hosted or public cloud storage, SaaS and flash storage are driving significant changes in storage architectures and solution requirements.
Cloud service providers provide customers storage for their data centers on demand, without requiring a capital expenditure, which meets rapidly evolving business needs and has changed the competitive landscape.
Competitors may develop new technologies or products in advance of us or establish business models or technologies disruptive to us.
By extending our flash, converged infrastructure and cloud storage offerings, we are competing in new segments with both traditional competitors and new competitors, particularly smaller emerging storage vendors.
The longer-term potential and competitiveness of these emerging vendors remains to be determined.
In cloud and converged infrastructure, we also compete with large well-established competitors.
For additional information regarding our competitors, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1 – Business of Part I of the 2018 Form 10-K.
It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors might emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or buying power.
An increase in industry consolidation might result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as full-stack vendors for customers and achieve increased economies of scale in the supply chain.
For example, in October 2016, Dell Inc. and EMC Corp. consummated their agreement to merge.
Also, in April 2017, HP Enterprise completed their acquisition of Nimble Storage.
In addition, current and potential competitors have established or might establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners or suppliers.
Continuing uncertain economic and political conditions restrict our visibility and may harm our operating results, including our revenue growth and profitability.
Continuing global economic uncertainty, political conditions and fiscal challenges in the United States (U.S.) and abroad have, among other things, limited our ability to forecast future demand for our products, contributed to increased periodic volatility in the computer, storage and networking industries at large, as well as the IT market, and could constrain future access to capital for our suppliers, customers and partners.
The impacts of these circumstances are global and pervasive, and the timing and nature of any ultimate resolution of these matters remain highly uncertain.
Consequently, we expect these concerns to challenge our business for the foreseeable future, which could cause harm to our operating results.
Such conditions have resulted, and may in the future again result, in failure to meet our forecasted financial expectations and to achieve historical levels of revenue growth.
Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate materially, which could harm our common stock price.
•
Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and
•
Linearity, such as our historical intra-quarter bookings and revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter’s total bookings and related revenue occur in the last month of the quarter.
If our operating results fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock may decline.
Our gross margins vary.
Our gross margins reflect a variety of factors, including competitive pricing, component and product design, and the volume and relative mix of revenues from product, software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services.
Increased component costs, increased pricing and discounting pressures, the relative and varying rates of increases or decreases in component costs and product prices, or changes in the mix of revenue or decreased volume from product, software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services could harm our revenues, gross margins or earnings.
Our gross margins are also impacted by the cost of any materials that are of poor quality and our sales and distribution activities, including, without limitation, pricing actions, rebates, sales initiatives and discount levels, and the timing of service contract renewals.
The costs of third-party components comprise a significant portion of our product costs.
While we generally have been able to manage our component and product design costs, we may have difficulty managing these costs if supplies of certain components become limited or component prices increase.
Any such limitation could result in an increase in our product costs.
An increase in component or design costs relative to our product prices could harm our gross margins and earnings.
We often incur expenses before we receive related benefits, and expenses may be difficult to reduce quickly if demand declines.
We base our expense levels in part on future revenue expectations and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed.
It is difficult to reduce our fixed costs quickly, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results could be adversely impacted.
During periods of uneven growth or decline, we may incur costs before we realize the anticipated related benefits, which could also harm our operating results.
We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business.
We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the related anticipated benefits, such as revenue growth, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.
If we are unable to maintain and develop relationships with strategic partners, our revenues may be harmed.
Our growth strategy includes developing and maintaining strategic partnerships with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with them.
A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets.
In particular, strategic
partnerships with hyperscalers and cloud service vendors are critical to the success of our cloud-based business.
However, there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and these relationships may not be exclusive, may not generate significant revenues and may be terminated on short notice.
For instance, some of our partners are also partnering with our competitors, which may increase the availability of competing solutions and harm our ability to grow our relationships with those partners.
Moreover, some of our partners, particularly large, more diversified technology companies, are also competitors, thereby complicating our relationships.
If we are unable to establish new partnerships or maintain existing partnerships, if our strategic partners favor their relationships with other vendors in the storage industry or if our strategic partners increasingly compete with us, we could experience lower than expected revenues, suffer delays in product development, or experience other harm to our business, operating results and financial condition.
If we do not achieve forecasted bookings in any quarter, our financial results could be harmed.
We derive a majority of our revenues in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter.
Bookings typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter.
If we do not achieve the level, timing and mix of bookings consistent with our quarterly targets and historical patterns, or if we experience cancellations of significant orders, our financial results could be harmed.
A portion of our revenues is generated by large, recurring purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors.
A loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties has negatively affected us in the past, and could negatively affect our revenues in the future.
A significant portion of our net revenues are generated through sales to a limited number of distributors.
We generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers, resellers and distributors for extended periods of time, and thus there is no guarantee we will continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors.
For example, our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases, and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop purchasing and marketing our products at any time.
In addition, unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors or the ability of such customers, resellers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products.
If any of our key customers, resellers or distributors changes its pricing practices, reduces the size or frequency of its orders for our products, or stops purchasing our products altogether, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted.
We rely on a limited number of suppliers for critical product components.
We rely on a limited number of suppliers for drives and other components utilized in the assembly of our products, including certain single source suppliers, which has subjected us, and could in the future subject us, to price rigidity, periodic supply constraints, and the inability to produce our products with the quality and in the quantities demanded.
Consolidation among suppliers, particularly within the semiconductor and disk drive industries, has contributed to price rigidity and may in the future create supply constraints.
When industry supply is constrained, our suppliers may allocate volumes away from us and to our competitors, all of which rely on many of the same suppliers as we do.
Accordingly, our operating results may be harmed.
Any disruption to our supply chain could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition.
•Limited ability to control the quality, quantity and cost of our products or of their components;
•
The potential for binding price or purchase commitments with our suppliers at higher than market rates;
•Limited ability to adjust production volumes in response to our customers’ demand fluctuations;
•Labor and political unrest at facilities we do not operate or own;
•Geopolitical disputes disrupting our supply chain;
•
Business, legal compliance, litigation and financial concerns affecting our suppliers or their ability to manufacture and ship our products in the quantities, quality and manner we require; and
•
Disruptions due to floods, earthquakes, storms and other natural disasters, particularly in countries with limited infrastructure and disaster recovery resources.
Such risks have subjected us, and could in the future subject us, to supply constraints, price increases and minimum purchase requirements and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.
The risks associated with our outsourced manufacturing model are particularly acute when we transition products to new facilities or manufacturers, introduce and increase volumes of new products or qualify new contract manufacturers or suppliers, at which times our ability to manage the relationships among us, our manufacturing partners and our component suppliers, becomes critical.
New manufacturers, products, components or facilities create increased costs and risk that we will fail to deliver high quality products in the required volumes to our customers.
Any failure of a manufacturer or component supplier to meet our quality, quantity or delivery requirements in a cost-effective manner will harm our business, operating results and customer relationships.
Due to the global nature of our business, risks inherent in our international operations could materially harm our business.
A significant portion of our operations are located, and a significant portion of our revenues are derived, outside of the U.S.
In addition, most of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S., and we have research and development, sales and service centers overseas.
Accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our international operations including, among other things, local political or economic conditions, trade protection and export and import requirements, tariffs, local labor conditions, transportation costs, government spending patterns, acts of terrorism, international conflicts and natural disasters in areas with limited infrastructure.
In particular, the current trade tensions with China could impact our business and operating results.
In addition, due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to complex legal and regulatory requirements in the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and sell our products, including antitrust and anti-competition laws, rules and regulations, and regulations related to data privacy.
We are also subject to the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation, or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than U.S. laws.
Such factors could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.
We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations.
These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows.
We utilize forward and option contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities.
Our hedging strategies may not be successful, and currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows.
In addition, our foreign currency exposure on assets, liabilities and cash flows that we do not hedge could have a material impact on our financial results in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to foreign currencies.
Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations.
We could be subject to additional income tax liabilities.
Our effective tax rate is influenced by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control.
These factors include among other things, fluctuations in our earnings and financial results in the various countries and states in which we do business, the outcome of income tax audits and changes to the tax laws in such jurisdictions.
Changes to any of these factors could materially impact our operating results.
We receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-U.S. customers.
These benefits are contingent upon existing tax laws and regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which our international operations are located.
Future changes in domestic or international tax laws and regulations or a change in how we manage our international operations could adversely affect our ability to continue realizing these tax benefits.
Many countries around the world are beginning to implement legislation and other guidance to align their international tax rules with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting recommendations and related action plans that aim to standardize and modernize global corporate tax policy, including changes to cross-border tax, transfer-pricing documentation rules and nexus-based tax incentive practices.
As a result, many of these changes, if enacted, could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations.
We are routinely subject to income tax audits in the U.S. and several foreign tax jurisdictions.
If the ultimate determination of income taxes or at-source withholding taxes assessed under these audits results in amounts in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected.
Our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business in response to changing market conditions and market demand for our products, and such actions may have an adverse effect on our financial and operating results.
Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions.
If our products are defective, or are perceived to be defective as a result of improper use or maintenance, our gross margins, operating results and customer relationships may be harmed.
If a data center or other third party who relies on our products experiences a disruption in service or a loss of data, such disruption could be attributed to the quality of our products, thereby causing financial or reputational harm to our business.
Our clients, including data centers, SaaS, cloud computing and internet infrastructure and bandwidth providers, rely on our products for their data storage needs.
Our clients may authorize third-party technology providers to access their data on our systems.
Because we do not control the transmissions between our clients, their customers, and third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the complete integrity or security of such transmissions or processing.
Errors or wrongdoing by clients, their customers, or third-party technology providers resulting in security breaches may be attributed to us.
information over the internet, including through news articles, blogs, chat rooms, and social media sites.
This may affect our ability to retain clients and attract new business.
If a cybersecurity or other security breach occurs on our systems or on our end -user customer systems, or if stored data is improperly accessed, customers may reduce or cease using our solutions, our reputation may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities.
We store and transmit personal, sensitive and proprietary data related to our products, our employees, customers, clients and partners (including third-party vendors such as data centers and providers of SaaS, cloud computing, and internet infrastructure and bandwidth), and their respective customers, including intellectual property, books of record and personal information.
It is critical to our business strategy that our infrastructure, products and services remain secure and are perceived by customers, clients and partners to be secure.
There are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, human error and technological vulnerabilities.
Cybersecurity incidents or other security breaches could result in (1) unauthorized access to, or loss or unauthorized disclosure of, such information; (2) litigation, indemnity obligations, government investigations and other possible liabilities; (3) negative publicity; and (4) disruptions to our internal and external operations.
Any of these could damage our reputation and public perception of the security and reliability of our products, as well as harm our business and cause us to incur significant liabilities.
In addition, a cybersecurity incident or other security breach could result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, disruption of internal operations, increased cybersecurity protection costs and lost revenues.
Our clients and customers use our platforms for the transmission and storage of sensitive data.
We do not review the information or content that our clients and their customers upload and store, and, therefore, we have no direct control over the substance of the information or content stored within our platforms.
If our employees, or our clients, partners or their respective customers use our platforms for the transmission or storage of personal or other sensitive information and our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business may be harmed and we could incur significant liabilities.
High-profile cyberattacks and security breaches have increased in recent years, and security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyberattacks targeting IT products and businesses.
Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.
As we continue to increase our client base and expand our brand, we may become more of a target for third parties seeking to compromise our security systems and we anticipate that hacking attempts and cyberattacks will increase in the future.
We cannot give assurance that we will always be successful in preventing or repelling unauthorized access to our systems.
There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim.
Our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or our insurers may deny coverage as to any future claim.
The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.
Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel and to preserve the key aspects of our corporate culture.
Because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified engineers, including in emerging areas of technology such as artificial intelligence and machine learning.
In addition, to increase revenues, we will be required to increase the productivity of our sales force and support infrastructure to achieve adequate customer coverage.
Competition for qualified employees, particularly in Silicon Valley,
Equity grants are a critical component of our current compensation programs.
If we reduce, modify or eliminate our equity programs, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining critical employees.
In addition, because of the structure of our cash and equity incentive compensation plans, we may be at increased risk of losing employees at certain times.
For example, the retention value of our compensation plans decreases after the payment of annual bonuses or the vesting of equity awards.
We are continually seeking ways to make our cost structure, business processes and systems more efficient, including by moving activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing new business information systems.
Problems with the execution of these activities could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
In addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of these initiatives.
We continuously seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient, including by moving our business activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing changes to our business information systems.
These efforts involve a significant investment of financial and human resources and significant changes to our current operating processes.
In addition, as we move operations into lower-cost jurisdictions and outsource certain business processes, we become subject to new regulatory regimes and lose control of certain aspects of our operations and, as a consequence, become more dependent upon the systems and business processes of third-parties.
If we are unable to move our operations, outsource business processes and implement new business information systems in a manner that complies with local law and maintains adequate standards, controls and procedures, the quality of our products and services may suffer and we may be subject to increased litigation risk, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Additionally, we may not achieve the expected benefits of these and other transformational initiatives, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.
Our acquisitions may not achieve expected benefits, and may increase our liabilities, disrupt our existing business and harm our operating results.
As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities.
For example, in fiscal 2018 we acquired two privately held companies, and in fiscal 2016 we acquired SolidFire, Inc.
The benefits we have received, and expect to receive, from these and other acquisitions depend on our ability to successfully conduct due diligence, negotiate the terms of the acquisition and integrate the acquired business into our systems, procedures and organizational structure.
Any inaccuracy in our acquisition assumptions or any failure to uncover liabilities or risks associated with the acquisition, make the acquisition on favorable terms, integrate the acquired business or assets as and when expected or retain key employees of the acquired company may reduce or eliminate the expected benefits of the acquisition to us, increase our costs, disrupt our operations, result in additional liabilities, investigations and litigation, and may also harm our strategy, our business and our operating results.
The failure to achieve expected acquisition benefits may also result in impairment charges for goodwill and purchased intangible assets.
Reduced U.S. government demand could materially harm our business and operating results.
In addition, we could be harmed by claims that we have or a channel partner has failed to comply with regulatory and contractual requirements applicable to sales to the U.S. government.
The U.S. government is an important customer for us.
However, government demand is uncertain, as it is subject to political and budgetary fluctuations and constraints.
Events such as the U.S. federal government shutdown in October 2013 and continued uncertainty regarding the U.S. budget and debt levels have increased demand uncertainty for our products, and in our fiscal 2016 resulted in lower sales to these customers.
In addition, like other customers, the U.S. government may evaluate competing products and delay purchasing in the face of the technology transitions taking place in the storage industry.
If the U.S. government or an individual agency or multiple agencies within the U.S. government continue to reduce or shift their IT spending patterns, our revenues and operating results may be harmed.
Selling our products to the U.S. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements.
Failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines, and other penalties, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition.
As an example, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and the General Services Administration (GSA) have in the past pursued claims against and financial settlements with IT vendors, including us and several of our competitors and channel partners, under the False Claims Act and other statutes related to pricing and discount practices and compliance with certain provisions of GSA contracts for sales to the federal government.
Although the DOJ and GSA currently have no claims pending against us, we could face claims in the future.
Violations of certain regulatory and contractual requirements, including with respect to data security, could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future government contracting.
Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
We are exposed to credit risks and fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio.
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
Credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors.
As a result, the value and liquidity of our investments may fluctuate substantially.
Therefore, although we have not recently realized any significant losses on our investments, future fluctuations in their value could result in a significant realized loss.
There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness.
In addition, all our debt and credit facility arrangements subject us to continued compliance with restrictive and financial covenants.
If we do not comply with these covenants or otherwise default under the arrangements, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts borrowed under these agreements.
Moreover, compliance with these covenants may restrict our strategic or operational flexibility in the future, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.
We are exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our customers, resellers and distributors, especially during times of economic uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in material losses.
Most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days.
We may experience losses due to a customer’s inability to pay.
Beyond our open credit arrangements, some of our customers have entered into recourse and non-recourse financing leasing arrangements using third-party leasing companies.
Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default.
During periods of economic uncertainty, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases.
In addition, our exposure to credit risks of our customers may increase further if our customers and their customers or their lease financing sources are adversely affected by global economic conditions.
Our failure to adjust to emerging standards in the storage and data management industry may harm our business.
Emerging standards in the storage and data management markets may adversely affect the UNIX®, Windows® and World Wide Web server markets upon which we depend.
For example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability and permanence in the U.S. and in the other countries in which we operate.
If our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we may not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted.
Some of our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and other laws affecting the countries in which our products and services may be sold, distributed, or delivered, and any violation of these laws could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to import and export restrictions and regulations, including the Export Administration Regulations administered by the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) and the trade and economic sanctions regulations administered by the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
The U.S., through the BIS and OFAC, places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons.
Violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products to the federal government.
Our products could be shipped to those targets by third parties, including potentially our channel partners, despite our precautions.
If we were ever found to have violated U.S. export control laws, we may be subject to various penalties available under the laws, any of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Even if we were not found to have violated such laws, the political and media scrutiny surrounding any governmental investigation of us could cause us significant expense and reputational harm.
Such collateral consequences could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Changes in regulations relating to our products or their components, or the manufacture, sourcing, distribution or use thereof, may harm our business and operating results.
The laws and regulations governing the manufacturing, sourcing, distribution and use of our products have become more complex and stringent over time.
For example, in addition to various environmental laws relating to carbon emissions and the use and discharge of hazardous materials, the SEC adopted regulations concerning the supply of certain minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries.
We incur costs to comply with the disclosure requirements of this law and may realize other costs relating to the sourcing and availability of minerals used in our products.
Further, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational harm if our customers or other stakeholders conclude that we are unable to verify sufficiently the origins of the minerals used in the products we sell.
As the laws and regulations governing our products continue to expand and change, our costs are likely to rise, and the failure to comply with any such laws and regulations could subject us to business interruptions, litigation risks and reputational harm.
Our failure to protect our intellectual property could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.
Our success depends significantly upon developing, maintaining and protecting our proprietary technology.
We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions with employees, resellers, strategic partners and customers, to protect our proprietary rights.
We currently have multiple U.S. and international patent applications pending and multiple U.S. and international patents issued.
The pending applications may not be approved, and our existing and future patents may be challenged.
If such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated.
We may not be able to develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, and patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties.
Further, the patents of others may materially and adversely affect our ability to do business.
In addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and competitive condition.
Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology.
Any such litigation may be time-consuming and costly.
Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the U.S. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours.
In addition, while we train employees in confidentiality practices and include terms in our employee and consultant agreements to protect our intellectual property, there is persistent risk that some individuals will improperly take our intellectual property after terminating their employment or other engagements with us, which could lead to intellectual property leakage to competitors and a loss of our competitive advantages.
We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others.
We compete in markets in which intellectual property infringement claims arise in the normal course of business.
Third parties have, from time to time, asserted intellectual property-related claims against us, including claims for alleged patent infringement brought by non-practicing entities.
Such claims may be made against our products and services, our customers’ use of our products and services, or a combination of our products and third-party products.
We also may be subject to claims and indemnification obligations from customers and resellers with respect to third-party intellectual property rights pursuant to our agreements with them.
If we refuse to indemnify or defend such claims, even in situations in which the third party’s allegations are meritless, then customers and resellers may refuse to do business with us.
We expect that companies in the network storage and data management markets will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps.
Any such claims, and any such infringement claims discussed above, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.
Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all.
We rely on software from third parties, and a failure to properly manage our use of third-party software could result in increased costs or loss of revenue.
Our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of natural disasters, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events.
We depend on the ability of our personnel, inventories, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world.
Any political, military, terrorism, global trade, world health or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions.
Furthermore, any economic failure or other material disruption caused by natural disasters, including fires, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, and volcanoes; power loss or shortages; environmental disasters; telecommunications or business information systems failures or break-ins and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business.
If such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on IT, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, or impair our ability to meet our customer demands, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
In addition, our headquarters is located in Northern California, an area susceptible to earthquakes and wildfires.
If any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business and our financial condition could be impaired.
Our stock price is subject to volatility.
Our stock price is subject to changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors' or analysts' valuation measures for our stock, changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt, changes in our credit ratings, our ability to pay dividends and to continue to execute our stock repurchase program as planned and market trends unrelated to our performance.
Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations or business can cause changes in our stock price.
These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products or services, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes may adversely affect our stock price.
