fls.txt
Substantial risks and uncertainties unknown at this time could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, 
Management cannot predict every risk factor, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of all such risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Effective January 1, 2018 we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with customers, or Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 606 using the full retrospective method, as discussed in detail in Note 5.
The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No. 2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.
The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The most significant impact of adopting the standard relates to the determination of whether the Company is acting as a principal or an agent in the sale of third party security software and software that is highly interdependent with support, as well as maintenance, support and other services.
Historically, under the transfer of risk and rewards model of revenue recognition, the Company has accounted for primarily all of its sales on a gross basis.
While assessing its performance obligations for sales of security software and software subscriptions that are highly interdependent with support, the Company determined that the vendor has ongoing performance obligations with the end customer that are not separately identifiable from the software itself.
The Company also determined that the vendor has ongoing performance obligation for sales of certain third-party maintenance, support and service contracts.
When acting as an agent in a transaction, the Company accounts for sales on a net basis, with the vendor cost associated with the sale recognized as a reduction of revenue.
Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer — A contract with a customer exists when (i) we enter into an enforceable contract with a customer that defines each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred and identifies the payment terms related to these goods or services, (ii) the contract has commercial substance and, (iii) we determine that collection of substantially all consideration for goods or services that are transferred is probable based on the customer’s intent and ability to pay the promised consideration.
The Company considers customer purchase orders, which in some cases are governed by master agreements or general terms and conditions of sale, to be contracts with customers.
Revenue from our hardware products is recognized on a gross basis, with the selling price to the customer as net sales, and the cost of the related product as cost of sales, upon transfer of title and risk of loss to the customer, as the Company is acting a principal in the transaction.
Software product consists of sales of perpetual and term software licenses for products developed by third party vendors, which are distinct from related maintenance and support.
Revenue from the sale of software products is recognized on a gross basis, with the selling price to the customer as net sales, and the cost of the related product as cost of sales, upon transfer of control to our customers as the Company is a principal in the transaction.
Software maintenance and support, commonly known as software assurance or post contract support, consists of software updates and technical support provided by the software vendor to the licensor over a period of time.
In cases where the software maintenance is distinct from the related software license, software maintenance is accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
In cases where the software maintenance is not distinct from the related software license, it is accounted for as a single performance obligation with the related license.
See Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract for a discussion of the allocation of maintenance and support costs when they are distinct from the related software licenses and Software - security and highly interdependent with support for a discussion of maintenance and support costs when they are not distinct from the related software license.
Software - security and highly interdependent with support - Software - security software and software highly interdependent with support consists of sales of security subscriptions and other licensed software products whose functionality is highly interdependent with, and therefore not distinct from, related software maintenance.
Delivery of the software license and related support over time is considered a single performance obligation of the third-party vendor for these products.
The Company is an agent in these transactions, with revenue being recorded on a net basis when its performance obligation of processing a valid order between the supplier and customer contracting for the services is complete.
Maintenance, support and other services revenue - Maintenance, support and other services revenue consists of third-party post-contract support that is not critical or essential to the core functionality of the related licensed software, and, to a lesser extent, from third-party professional services, software as a service, and cloud subscriptions.
Revenue from maintenance, support and other service revenues is recognized on a net basis, upon fulfillment of an order to the customer, as the Company is an agent in the transaction, and its performance obligations are complete at the time a valid order between the parties is processed.
Accounts receivable-long-term result from product sales with extended payment terms that are discounted to their present values at the Company’s estimates of prevailing market rates at the time of the sale.
Provisions for doubtful accounts including long-term accounts receivable and returns are estimated based on historical write offs, sales returns and credit memo analysis which are adjusted to actual on a periodic basis.
The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximated fair value at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 because of the relative short maturity of these instruments.
The Company’s accounts receivable long-term is discounted to their present value at estimated prevailing market rates at the date of sale so the balances approximate fair value.
The Company had two major vendors that accounted for 31.7% and 14.7%, respectively, of total purchases during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company had two major vendors that accounted for 30.8% and 13.4%, respectively, of total purchases during the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The Company had two major customers that accounted for 25.9% and 18.2%, respectively, of its net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company had two major customers that accounted for 20.4% and 19.1%, respectively, of its net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2017.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized share-based compensation cost of $0.3 million and $0.3 million respectively, which is included in the Company’s general and administrative expense.


item2.txt
The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations.
The Company’s accounts receivable long-term are discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale based on prevailing rates.
The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No. 2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition for accounts receivable.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.
The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.
We define adjusted gross billings as net sales in accordance with U.S. GAAP, adjusted for the cost of sales related to Software – security and highly interdependent with support and Maintenance, support and other services.
We provided a reconciliation of Adjusted gross billings to net sales, which is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure.
In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate Adjusted gross billings of product and services or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.
Net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased 6%, or $2.5 million, to $40.6 million, compared to $38.1 million for the same period in 2017, as increased net sales in our Lifeboat Distribution segment were offset in part by decreased extended payment sales in our TechXtend segment.
Adjusted gross billings for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased 11%, or $12.3 million, to $125.1 million, compared to $112.8 million for the same period in 2017.
Adjusted gross billings increased at a higher rate than net sales primarily due to a higher percentage of sales being comprised of maintenance and software -security and highly interdependent with support which are recorded on a net basis.
Lifeboat Distribution segment net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased $3.0 million, or 9% to $36.8 million, compared to $33.8 million for the same period a year earlier.
Adjusted gross billings for the Lifeboat Distribution segment increased $14.5 million or 14% to $119.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
Adjusted gross billings increased at a faster rate than net sales because of a higher percentage of our sales being derived from maintenance services and subscriptions which are recorded net of cost of sales.
TechXtend segment net sales decreased $0.5 million or 13% to $3.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, compared to $4.3 million for the prior year.
Sales in our TechXtend segment may vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the timing of IT spending decisions by our larger customers and internal capital allocation decisions regarding funds allocated to the extended payment program.
Adjusted gross billings for the TechXtend segment decreased $2.3 million or 27% to $6.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
During the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we relied on two key customers for a total of 44.1% of our gross billings.
One major customer accounted for 25.9% and the other for 18.2%, of our total net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Gross profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased 2% or $0.1 million, to $6.9 million, compared to $6.8 million for the same period in 2017, primarily due to higher net sales in the Lifeboat Distribution segment partially offset by decreased net sales in the TechXtend segment, as discussed above.
Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit increased 6% or $0.3 million to $6.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 compared $5.8 million for the same period in 2017 due to sales growth discussed above.
TechXtend segment gross profit decreased 23% to $0.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 compared to $0.9 million for the same period in the prior year due to decreased extended payment terms sales.
Gross profit margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales) for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was 17.0% compared to 17.7% in 2017.
Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit margin was 16.8% for the quarter ended March 31, 
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.5 million or 23.4% of income, compared to $0.6 million or 32.0% of income for the same period in 2017.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $2.5 million, comprised of net income adjusted for non-cash items of $2.1 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $0.4 million.
The increase in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in net working capital (accounts receivable, inventory, and vendor prepayments less accounts payable) resulting from the utilization of vendor prepayments made in the prior year.
In the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $0.1 million, compared to $0.2 million in the prior year.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under our lines of credit and no commitments relating to standby letters of credit, and has no standby repurchase obligations or other commercial commitments (see Note 8 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements).
(2)    Average price paid per share reflects the closing price the Company’s Common Stock on the business date the shares were surrendered by the employee stockholder to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of Restricted Stock or the price of the Common Stock paid on the open market purchase, as applicable.
(4)    On December 3, 2014, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans.
On February 2, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans.


item4.txt
As required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Exchange Act, our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures”, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this report.
This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of various members of our management, including our Company’s President, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
Based upon that evaluation, we have identified a material weakness in our controls over financial reporting that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
(1)    Includes 9,126 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.
(2)    Average price paid per share reflects the closing price the Company’s Common Stock on the business date the shares were surrendered by the employee stockholder to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of Restricted Stock or the price of the Common Stock paid on the open market purchase, as applicable.


