fls.txt
Substantial risks and uncertainties unknown at this time could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the continued acceptance of the Company’s distribution channel by vendors and customers, the timely availability and acceptance of new products, product mix, market conditions, competitive pricing pressures, contribution of key vendor relationships and support programs, including vendor rebates and discounts, as well as factors that affect the software industry in general and other factors generally.
Management cannot predict every risk factor, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of all such risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term from operating leases.
For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities.
This update still requires modified retrospective transition; however, it adds the option to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment in the current period instead of at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.
The Company adopted the new accounting standard on January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective transition option.
The new standard provides optional practical expedients in transition, which the Company has elected as a package permitting the Company to not reassess under the new standard prior conclusions regarding lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
Also, in accordance with the new standard, the Company has elected in transition and for an ongoing basis not to apply the recognition requirements for all short-term leases.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of approximately $3.0 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases.
The Company also recognized corresponding ROU assets, net of lease incentives of approximately $2.2 million.
The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No. 2016-13 on its Consolidated Financial Statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2018-07, “Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting” (“ASU 2018-07”), which aligns the measurement and classification guidance for share-based payments to nonemployees with that for employees, with certain exceptions.
Software product consists of sales of perpetual and term software licenses for products developed by third party vendors, which are distinct from related maintenance and support.
Revenue from the sale of software products is recognized on a gross basis, with the selling price to the customer as net sales, and the cost of the related product as cost of sales, upon transfer of control to our customers as the Company is a principal in the transaction.
In cases where the software maintenance is distinct from the related software license, software maintenance is accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
In cases where the software maintenance is not distinct from the related software license, it is accounted for as a single performance obligation with the related license.
The Company is an agent in these transactions, with revenue being recorded on a net basis when its performance obligation of processing a valid order between the supplier and customer contracting for the services is complete.
Revenue from maintenance, support and other service revenues is recognized on a net basis, upon fulfillment of an order to the customer, as the Company is an agent in the transaction, and its performance obligations are complete at the time a valid order between the parties is processed.
Accounts receivable-long-term result from product sales with extended payment terms that are discounted to their present values at the Company’s estimates of prevailing market rates at the time of the sale.
Provisions for doubtful accounts including long-term accounts receivable and returns are estimated based on historical write offs, sales returns and credit memo analysis which are adjusted to actual on a periodic basis.
Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and lease expense for these leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date of the lease based on the present value of the lease payments over the lease term.
As our leases do not provide a readily determinable implicit rate, we use an incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date, including lease term, in determining the present value of future payments.
Operating lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term and included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
(1)    Represents operating leases existing on January 1, 2019 and recognized as part of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-02.
The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term accounts receivable and accounts payable approximated fair value at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 because of the relative short maturity of these instruments.
The Company’s accounts receivable long-term are discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded depreciation and amortization expense of $0.1 million, respectively, which is included in selling, general and administrative expense.
The undiscounted cash flows to be received by the Company relating to these accounts receivable long-term will be $7.4 million, $2.9 million and $0.3 million during the 12-month periods ending March 31, 2020, 2021 and 2022, respectively.
The Company had two major vendors that accounted for 28% and 16%, respectively, of total purchases during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The Company had two major vendors that accounted for 32% and 15%, respectively, of total purchases during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company had two major customers that accounted for 26% and 18%, respectively, of its net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The Company had two major customers that accounted for 26% and 18%, respectively, of its total net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized share-based compensation cost of $0.2 million and $0.3 million, respectively.


item2.txt
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 million and less than $0.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2019, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.1 million for the 
Under ASC 606 net sales for certain maintenance, service and security products we sell are recorded net of the related cost of sales.
Software and hardware products for which sales and cost of sales are reported on separate line items are referred to as being recorded on a gross basis.
Diluted income per share for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 was $0.32 compared to diluted income per share of $0.36 for the same period in the prior year.
On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, stock-based compensation, contingencies and litigation.
The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations.
In limited circumstances, the Company offers extended payment terms to customers for periods of 12 to 48 months.
The net proceeds from such sales are included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows as changes in accounts receivable.
Under the fair value recognition provision, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
This update still requires modified retrospective transition; however, it adds the option to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment in the current period instead of at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of approximately $3.0 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases.
The Company also recognized corresponding right-of-use assets, net of lease incentives of approximately $2.2 million.
The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No. 2016-13 on its Consolidated Financial Statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2018-07, “Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting” (“ASU 2018-07”), which aligns the measurement and classification guidance for share-based payments to nonemployees with that for employees, with certain exceptions.
The ASU retains the existing cost attribution guidance, which requires entities to recognize compensation cost for nonemployee awards in the same period and in the same manner (i.e., capitalize or expense) they would if they paid cash for the goods or services, but it moves the guidance to ASC 718.
We define adjusted gross billings as net sales in accordance with U.S. GAAP, adjusted for the cost of sales related to Software – security or highly interdependent with support and maintenance, support or other services.
We provided a reconciliation of adjusted gross billings to net sales, which is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure.
In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate adjusted gross billings of product and services or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.
Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased 11%, or $4.4 million, to $44.9 million, compared to $40.5 million for the same period in the prior year.
Adjusted gross billings for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased 13%, or $16.8 million, to $141.9 million compared to $125.1 million for the same period in the prior year.
Lifeboat Distribution segment net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $3.3 million, or 9%, to $40.1 million compared to $36.8 million for the same period in the prior year.
Adjusted gross billings for the Lifeboat Distribution segment for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $15.3 million, or 13%, to $134.3 million compared to $119.0 million for the same period in the prior year.
TechXtend segment net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $1.1 million, or 29%, to $4.8 million compared to $3.7 million for the prior year.
The increase was primarily due to several high dollar enterprise sale transactions during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Adjusted gross billings for the TechXtend segment for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $1.5 million, or 25%, to $7.6 million compared to $6.1 million for the same period in the prior year.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we relied on two key customers for a total of 44% of our net sales, with one of these customers accounting for 26% and the other customer accounting for 18% of our total net sales during the quarter ended March 31, 2019.
The Company had two major customers that accounted for 26% and 18%, respectively, of its total net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased 5%, or $0.3 million, to $7.2 million compared to $6.9 million for the same period in the prior year.
Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2019 remained consistent at $6.2 million when compared to the same period in the prior year while TechXtend segment gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased 46%, or $0.3 million, to $1.0 million compared to $0.7 million due to the higher net sales discussed above.
Gross profit margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales) for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was 16.1% compared to 17.0% for the same period in the prior year.
The change in gross profit margin is significantly impacted by changes in the percentage mix of our products which are recorded net of the related cost of sales, and hardware and software product sales which are reported on a gross basis.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 approximately 10.4% of our net sales was attributable to security, maintenance and third-party service products which are recorded on a net basis, or an effective 100% gross profit margin, compared to 11.6% for the same period in the prior year.
This shift in product mix had the effect of reducing gross profit as a percent of net sales by 110 basis points.
Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was 15.5% compared to 16.8% for the same period in the prior year.
TechXtend segment gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was 21.6% compared to 19.1% for the same period in the prior year.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.5 million, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was 25.0% compared to 23.4% for the same period in the prior year.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was less than $0.1 million, comprised primarily of net income adjusted for non-cash items of $1.8 million, offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $1.8 million.
Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $0.1 million respectively.
Net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $0.8 million, primarily comprised of dividend payments on our Common Stock.


part2.txt
(1)    Includes 1,905 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.
(2)    Average price paid per share reflects the closing price the Company’s Common Stock on the business date the shares were surrendered by the employee stockholder to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of Restricted Stock or the price of the Common Stock paid on the open market purchase, as applicable.


