fls.txt



item1.txt
AstroNova, Inc. products are employed around the world in a wide range of aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation applications.
The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
On February 1, 2018 we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification “ASC” Topic 606),” which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
Accordingly, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our revenue recognition and there was no cumulative effective adjustment as of February 1, 2018 as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 606.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligation arrangements as well as the pattern of delivery for those services.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.
The majority of our hardware products contain embedded operating systems and data management software which is included in the purchase price of the equipment.
The delivery of installation and training services are not assessed to determine whether they are separate performance obligations, as the amounts are not material to the contract.
These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9.0% of revenue for the six months ended July 28, 2018.
Revenue is recognized as services are rendered and accepted by the customer.
We also provide service agreements on certain of our Product Identification equipment.
Service agreements are purchased separately from the equipment and provide for the right to obtain service and maintenance on the equipment for a period of typically one to two years.
The standard warranty period is typically 12 months for most hardware products except for airborne printers, which typically have warranties that extend for 4-5 years, consistent with industry practice.
On occasion, customers request a warranty period longer than our standard warranty.
In those instances, in which extended warranty services are separately quoted to the customer, an additional performance obligation is created, and the associated revenue is deferred and recognized as service revenue ratably over the term of the extended warranty period.
The portion of service contracts and extended warranty services agreements that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Product Identification—offers product identification and digital label printer hardware, software, servicing contracts, parts and supplies.
Supplies includes the media (substrate) and ink, toner, and thermal transfer ribbon used with the Company’s printers and the various parts used to maintain the printers.
Three Months Ended July 28, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended July 29, 2017 Revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $33.8 million, representing a 23.0% increase compared to the previous year second quarter revenue of $27.5 million.
International revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $13.8 million, a 34.0% increase over the previous year’s second quarter and represents 41% of AstroNova’s second quarter’s revenue.
Current year second quarter international revenue includes a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.3 million.
Supplies revenue in the current quarter was $17.9 million, a 9.8% increase over the prior year’s second quarter supplies revenue of $16.3 million.
Current year second quarter gross profit was $13.4 million, a 30.6% increase compared to prior year second quarter gross profit of $10.3 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 39.6% reflects a 2.3 percentage point increase from the prior year second quarter gross profit margin of 37.3%.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.
Item 2.


