fls.txt



item1.txt
AstroNova, Inc. products are employed around the world in a wide range of aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation applications.
The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
On February 1, 2018 we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification “ASC” Topic 606),” which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
Accordingly, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our revenue recognition and there was no cumulative effective adjustment as of February 1, 2018 as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 606.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligation arrangements as well as the pattern of delivery for those services.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.
Returns and customer credits are infrequent and are recorded as a reduction to revenue.
The majority of our hardware products contain embedded operating systems and data management software which is included in the purchase price of the equipment.
The delivery of installation and training services are not assessed to determine whether they are separate performance obligations, as the amounts are not material to the contract.
These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9% of revenue for the nine months ended October 27, 2018.
Revenue is recognized as services are rendered and accepted by the customer.
We also provide service agreements on certain of our Product Identification equipment.
Service agreements are purchased separately from the equipment and provide for the right to obtain service and maintenance on the equipment for a period of typically one to two years.
We generally provide warranties for our products.
The standard warranty period is typically 12 months for most hardware products except for airborne printers, which typically have warranties that extend for 4-5 years, consistent with industry practice.
On occasion, customers request a warranty period longer than our standard warranty.
In those instances, in which extended warranty services are separately quoted to the customer, an additional performance obligation is created, and the associated revenue is deferred and recognized as service revenue ratably over the term of the extended warranty period.
The portion of service contracts and extended warranty services agreements that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Three Months Ended October 27, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended October 28, 2017 Revenue for the third quarter of the current year was $34.2 million, representing an 18.9% increase compared to the previous year third quarter revenue of $28.8 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year third quarter was $21.5 million, an increase of 18.9% over the prior year’s third quarter.
Current year third quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.2 million.
Current year third quarter gross profit was $13.9 million, a 17.9% increase compared to prior year third quarter gross profit of $11.8 million.
Other expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.5 million compared to $12 thousand in the prior year third quarter.
Other income for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 includes $0.1 million of interest expense on debt and $0.2 million of foreign exchange loss, offset by $0.3 million of investment income and income received from the settlement of a legal matter related to patent infringement.
The Company reported net income of $1.4 million or $0.20 per diluted share for the third quarter of the current year, consistent with net income for the prior year third quarter of $1.4 million or $0.21 per diluted share.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


