fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
Our products are employed around the world in a wide range of applications in the aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation industries.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
On February 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02 using the modified retrospective transition method, which requires that we recognize leases differently pre- and post-adoption.
See “Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements—Leases” below for more information.
Our lease agreements cover various office facilities and are considered operating leases.
Operating Right-of-use (“ROU”) assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Company’s obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets include any lease pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred when appropriate.
For our lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, we generally account for each component separately.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement.” ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying or adding certain disclosures.
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Product Identification (PI) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year first quarter was $22.0 million, an increase of 14.6% over the prior year’s first quarter.
Current year first quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.6 million.
Other expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.4 million compared to $0.3 million in the prior year first quarter.
Current quarter other expense includes interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.2 million.
Other expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 consists primarily of interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million.
Return on revenue was 4.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 2.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 18.2% in the first quarter of the current year, with revenue of $23.6 million compared to $20.0 million in the same period of the prior year.
The current quarter increase in revenue is primarily attributable to the increase in supplies revenue, specifically, labels and tag supplies revenue and inkjet supply revenue, both experiencing double digit growth as compared to the same period in the prior year.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


