fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
Our products are employed around the world in a wide range of applications in the aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation industries.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
See Note 11 for further details related to the new lease accounting policy as a result of this adoption.
See Note 11 for further details related to this adoption, including policy and expanded disclosure requirements.
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which was estimated to be approximately 10 years.
The balance of these contract assets at January 31, 2019 was $903,000.
The remaining contract costs are expected to be amortized over the estimated remaining period of benefit, which we currently estimate to be approximately 7 years.


item2.txt
Revenue through domestic channels for the second quarter of the current year was $20.6 million, an increase of 3.4% over the prior year’s second quarter.
Current year second quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.3 million.
Other expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.2 million compared to $0.5 million in the second quarter of the prior year.
Current quarter other expense primarily includes interest expense on debt and the revolving line of credit of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million, which were partially offset by $0.1 million of other income.
Other expense for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 consists primarily of interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.3 million.
The Company reported net income of $1.0 million or $0.13 per diluted share for the second quarter of the current year.
Return on revenue was 2.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.5% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Revenue through domestic channels for the first half of the current year was $42.6 million, an increase of 8.7% from prior year domestic revenue of $39.2 million.
The current year’s first six months international revenue reflected an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.9 million.
The current year increase in supplies revenue is due primarily to the increase in inkjet printer supplies and labels sales, tempered by lower thermal film and electrophotographic supplies revenue in the Product Identification segment.
Other expense during the first six months of the current year was $0.6 million compared to $0.8 million in the first six months of the previous year.
Return on revenue was 3.8% for the first six months of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.1% for the first six months of fiscal 2019.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


