fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report.


item1.txt
As used in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (these “Notes”), the terms “Harris,” “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by Harris, without an audit, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Reclassifications include certain human resources and information technology (“IT”) costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
In cases where employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained beyond the minimum retention period, we record the expense ratably over the future service period.
In fiscal 2017, we recorded $58 million of charges for integration and other costs in connection with our acquisition of Exelis Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Exelis”), substantially all of which were included as a component of the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Income in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. We had liabilities of $34 million at December 29, 2017 and $43 million at June 30, 2017 associated with this integration activity and with previous restructuring actions.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted an accounting standards update issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) that requires recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Consequently, this update eliminates the exception to the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity transfers of assets other than for inventory until the assets have been sold to an outside party.
Adopting this update resulted in a $27 million reduction of prepaid income tax assets from the “Other current assets” and “Other non-current assets” line items and a $27 million increase in the “Non-current deferred income taxes” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) as of September 29, 2017.
In May 2014, the FASB issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based and, consequently, entities will be required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
The core principle of this standard is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
This standard allows for either “full retrospective” adoption (application to all periods presented) or “modified retrospective” adoption (application to only the most current period presented in the financial statements, with certain additional required footnote disclosures).
As a result, this standard is now effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which for us is our fiscal 2019.


item2.txt
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-year classifications.
Reclassifications include certain human resources and IT costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
The increase in segment gross margin in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in revenue.
The 2 percentage point decrease in segment gross margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to a less favorable mix of program and product revenue.
The increase in segment ESA expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher selling costs, reflecting the higher international tactical communications sales, and higher employment costs.
The 2 percentage point decrease in segment ESA percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in segment revenue and cost containment.
The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
Segment gross margin percentage for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 decreased slightly compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 primarily due to the same reasons as noted above regarding this segment for the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017, partially offset by the benefit of operational excellence improvements.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.


item3.txt
Item 3.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


