   (1)  The Company adopted the new revenue recognition standard (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 and has adjusted prior periods to conform. See Note 2. “New Accounting Pronouncements” for additional information.  
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.  
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.  
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.  
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.  
On January 1, 2018 the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) ASU No. 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” using the full retrospective method which required each prior reporting period presented to be adjusted to reflect the application of this ASU. See Note 2. “New Accounting Pronouncements” for additional information.  
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,” which requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost, including accounts receivable, upon initial recognition of that financial asset using a forward-looking expected loss model, rather than an incurred loss model for credit losses. Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses when the fair value is below the amortized cost of the asset, removing the concept of “other-than-temporary” impairments. The effective date for the Company will be January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842),” which requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheets, recognizing a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. The effective date for the Company will be January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The Company expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to this ASU and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption with no material impact to its results of operations and cash flows.  
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)”. The Company adopted ASC 606 and ASC 340-40 on January 1, 2018 using the full retrospective method, which required the Company to retrospectively adjust the prior periods presented.  
   •   Perpetual licenses with extended payment terms and term licenses - Revenue from perpetual license with extended payment terms and term license is now recognized when control is transferred to the client, the point in time when the client can use and benefit from the license. Previously the Company recognized revenue over the term of the agreements as payments became due or earlier if prepaid. Any unrecognized license revenue from these arrangements is recognized in the period that control transfers, as either a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings as of December 31, 2015 or as revenue in periods thereafter. Unbilled receivables in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets increased significantly due to the revenue from perpetual license with extended payment terms and term license being recognized prior to amounts billed, or prepaid by, clients.  
For additional information on the Company’s accounting policies as a result of the adoption of ASC 606 and ASC 340-40 see Note 4. “Receivables, Contract Assets, and Deferred Revenue”, Note 5. “Deferred Contract Costs”, and Note 9. “Revenue”.  
   (1)  Includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, income taxes receivable, other current assets, property and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill, and other long-term assets (as reflected in the consolidated balance sheets in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017).  
Adoption of ASC 606 had no impact on total cash from or used in operating, financing, or investing activities in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2017.  
As of March 31, 2018, remaining maturities of marketable securities ranged from May 2018 to February 2021, with a weighted-average remaining maturity of approximately 1.4 years.  
Receivables  
Unbilled receivables is the amount due from clients where the only condition on the right of payment is the passage of time. The Company regularly reassesses receivables for collectability. As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the allowance for doubtful accounts was not material.  
Contract assets and deferred revenue  
 (1) Included in other current assets in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets.  
The change in deferred revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018, excluding the impact of the netting of contract assets and deferred revenue, was primarily due to new billings in advance of revenue recognition and $101.6 million of revenue recognized that was included in deferred revenue at December 31, 2017.  
Major clients  
No client represented 10% or more of the Company’s total receivables as of March 31, 2018 or December 31, 2017.  
amortization period is one year or less. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, impairment of deferred contract costs was not material.  
   (1)  Included in other long-term assets in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets.  
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis  
   •   Level 1 - observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;  
   •   Level 2 - significant other inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly; and  
The Company’s cash equivalents are composed of money market funds and time deposits which are classified as Level 1 and Level 2, respectively, in the fair value hierarchy. The Company’s marketable securities, which are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy are valued based on a market approach using quoted prices, when available, or matrix pricing compiled by third party pricing vendors, using observable market inputs such as interest rates, yield curves, and credit risk. The Company’s investments in privately-held companies are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and are valued using model-based techniques, including option pricing models and discounted cash flow models.  
If applicable, the Company will recognize transfers into and out of levels within the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period in which the actual event or change in circumstance occurs. There were no transfers between levels during the three months ended March 31, 2018.  
For certain other financial instruments, including accounts receivable and accounts payable, the carrying value approximates their fair value due to the relatively short maturity of these items.  
Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis  
Assets recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including property and equipment and intangible assets, are recognized at fair value when they are impaired. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company did not recognize any impairments of its assets recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.  
Revenue policy  
The Company’s revenue is derived from sales of software licenses, maintenance fees related to the Company’s software licenses, and services.  
   •   License revenue is primarily derived from sales of the Company’s software applications and Pega Platform.  
   •   Maintenance revenue includes revenue from client support including software upgrades, on a when and-if available basis, telephone support, and bug fixes or patches.  
   •   Cloud revenue is derived from sales of the Company’s hosted Pega Platform and software application environments.  
   •   Consulting revenue is primarily related to new license implementations.  
Contracts with multiple performance obligations  
Software licenses  
The Company has concluded that its software licenses are distinct performance obligations as the client can benefit from the software on its own. Software license revenue is typically recognized at a point in time when control is transferred to the client, which is defined as the point in time when the client can use and benefit from the license. The software license is delivered before related services are provided and is functional without services, updates, and technical support. The Company’s license arrangements generally contain multiple performance obligations, including consulting, training, and maintenance. Stand-alone selling price for software licenses is determined using the residual approach. The Company utilizes the residual approach as license performance obligations are sold for a broad range of amounts (the selling price is highly variable) and a stand-alone selling price is not discernible from past transactions or other observable evidence. Periodically, the Company evaluates whether the residual approach is appropriate for its license and cloud performance obligations when sold with other performance obligations. As a result, if the stand­alone selling price analysis illustrates that the license and cloud performance obligations are no longer highly variable, the Company will utilize the relative allocation method for such arrangements.  
Term license fees are usually payable in advance on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis over the term of the license agreement, which is typically three to five years and may be renewed for additional terms at the client’s option. Perpetual license fees are usually payable when the contract is executed. The Company recognizes software license revenue when control is transferred, and the corresponding difference between the amount invoiced and recognized as revenue is recorded as unbilled receivables, as the payment of consideration is subject only to the passage of time.  
These performance obligations are distinct within the contract and, although they are not sold separately, the components are not essential to the functionality of the other components. Each of the performance obligations included in maintenance revenue is a stand-alone obligation that is recognized over the passage of the contractual term, which is typically one year. Maintenance fees are usually payable in advance on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis over the term of the agreement.  
The Company’s services revenue is comprised of consulting and training, including software license implementations, training, reimbursable expenses, and cloud which is derived from sales of the Company’s hosted Pega Platform and software application environments. The Company has concluded that most services are distinct performance obligations. Consulting may be provided on a stand-alone basis or bundled with license and software maintenance services.  
The stand-alone selling price of cloud sales of production environments is determined based on the residual approach when sold with services and is recognized over the term of the service. The Company utilizes the residual approach as cloud performance obligations are sold for a broad range of amounts (the selling price is highly variable) and a stand-alone selling price is not discernible from past transactions or other observable evidence. The stand-alone selling price for cloud sales of development and testing environments is developed using observable prices in similar transactions without multiple performance obligations and is recognized over time over the term of the service. Cloud fees are usually payable in advance on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis over the term of the service.  
Contract modifications  
   1. If the additional products and services are distinct from the products and services in the original arrangement, and  
   2. If the amount of consideration expected for the added products and services reflects the stand-alone selling price of those products and services.  
   1. a prospective basis as a termination of the existing contract and the creation of a new contract; or  
Geographic revenue  
Major products and services  
Transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations  
Transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized. Transaction price on remaining performance obligations was $291 million as of March 31, 2018, of which the Company expects to recognize $198.3 million prior to January 1, 2020. These amounts do not include contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less. For reporting periods ending prior to January 1, 2018, the date of initial adoption of ASC 606, the Company has elected the practical expedient and not compiled and disclosed the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations.  
Major clients  
The Company recognizes stock-based compensation on the accelerated recognition method, treating each vesting tranche as if it were an individual grant. As of March 31, 2018, the Company had, net of estimated forfeitures, $92.5 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, related to all unvested restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and stock options, which was expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.3 years.  
 (1)  Includes approximately 0.1 million RSUs which were granted in connection with the election by certain employees to receive 50% of their 2018 target incentive compensation under the Company’s Corporate Incentive Compensation Plan in the form of RSUs instead of cash. Stock-based compensation of approximately $8.2 million associated with this RSU grant is expected to be recognized over a one-year period beginning on the grant date.  
RSU vestings and stock option exercises  
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, 0.6 million shares of common stock were issued due to stock option exercises and RSU vestings under the Company’s stock-based compensation plans.  
Effective Tax Rate  
   •   an increase in U.S. research and development tax credits.  
Basic earnings per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period, plus the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and RSUs, using the treasury stock method. In periods of loss, all stock options and RSUs are excluded, as their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.  
Table of Contents 
