We develop, market, license, and support software applications for customer engagement and digital process automation, in addition to licensing our Pega Platform application development product for clients that wish to build and extend their own applications. The Pega Platform and applications help connect enterprises to their customers in real-time across channels, streamline business operations, and adapt to meet changing requirements.  
Our clients include Global 3000 companies and government agencies that seek to manage complex enterprise systems and customer service issues with greater agility and cost-effectiveness. Our strategy is to sell a client a series of licenses, each focused on a specific purpose or area of operations in support of longer term enterprise-wide digital transformation initiatives.  
Our license revenue is primarily derived from sales of our applications and Pega Platform. Our cloud revenue is derived from our hosted software applications and Pega Platform environments. Our consulting revenue is primarily related to new license implementations.  
The change in ACV measures the growth and predictability of future cash flows from committed term, cloud, and maintenance arrangements as of the end of the particular reporting period.  
The sum of the annual value of each term and cloud contract in effect on such date, with the annual value of a term or cloud contract being equal to the total value of the contract divided by the total number of years of the contract.  
Note 2. “New Accounting Pronouncements”, Note 4. “Receivables, Contract Assets, and Deferred Revenue”, and Note 9. “Revenue” contained in Item 1. “Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements” of this Quarterly Reporting on Form 10-Q for the three months ended June 30, 2018.  
Our clients’ contracts with us typically contain promises by us to provide multiple products and services. Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract. We allocate the transaction price to the distinct performance obligations based on relative stand-alone selling price. We estimate stand-alone selling price based on the prices charged to clients, or by using information such as market conditions and other observable inputs. However, the selling price of our software licenses and cloud performance obligations are highly variable. Thus, we estimate stand-alone selling price for software licenses and cloud performance obligations using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price minus the stand-alone selling price of other performance obligations promised in the contract.  
We continue to experience a shift in client preferences from perpetual arrangements to term and cloud arrangements. Revenue for cloud arrangements is recognized over the service period of the cloud contract, as compared to license arrangements, which is generally recognized at the contract effective date.  
The decrease in term license revenue in the six months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to $35.3 million in revenue recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2017 from a large term license renewal.  
The increases in maintenance revenue were primarily due to the continued growth in the aggregate value of the installed base of our software and strong renewal rates significantly in excess of 90%.  
The increases in consulting and training revenue were primarily due to higher billable hours driven by an increase in the number of projects during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018.  
The increase in total gross profit in the three months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to a large term license recognized in revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2018.  
The increases in maintenance gross profit percent in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were driven by decreases of $0.7 million and $1 million, respectively, in compensation and benefits due to decreased headcount and a decrease in client support expenses as we transferred resources to provide dedicated support to our growing cloud business.  
The increases in cloud gross profit percent in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were driven by cost efficiency gains as our cloud business continues to grow and scale, partially offset by an increase in client support expenses as we expanded our cloud client support function to sustain our growing cloud business.  
The decreases in consulting and training gross profit percent in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were driven primarily by lower utilization rates and the impact of our policy introduced late in the three months ended June 30, 2017 to offer our web-based training free of charge to users which reduced training revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 by $0.9 million and $1.6 million, respectively.  
Selling and marketing expenses include compensation, benefits, and other headcount-related expenses associated with our selling and marketing personnel as well as advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Selling and marketing expenses also include the amortization of client-related intangibles. The increase in headcount reflects our efforts to increase our sales capacity to target new accounts in existing industries, as well as to expand coverage in new industries and geographies, and to increase the number of sales opportunities.  
The increases in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $13.7 million and $25.4 million, increased employee travel and entertainment, and increased expenses related to the realignment of contract negotiation resources.  
Research and development expenses include compensation, benefits, contracted services, and other headcount-related expenses associated with the creation and development of our products, as well as enhancements and design changes to existing products and the integration of acquired technologies.  
The increases in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $1 million and $5.5 million, respectively, attributable to increased headcount and the expansion of our application development team to support the continued development of our expanding suite of software.  
General and administrative expenses include compensation, benefits, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, corporate governance, and other administrative headcount. They also include accounting, legal, and other professional consulting and administrative fees. The general and administrative headcount includes employees in human resources, information technology, and corporate services departments, whose costs are partially allocated to other operating expense areas.  
The decrease in the three months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in compensation and benefits of $1.6 million, due to decreased headcount reflecting the realignment of contract negotiation and product development resources to augment our selling and marketing and research development functions, respectively.  
The increase in the six months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to an increase of $1.2 million in legal fees.  
The increase in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to the increased value of our annual periodic equity awards granted in March 2018 and 2017. These awards generally have a five-year vesting schedule.  
excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 of $11.4 million and $18.1 million were disproportionately greater relative to income before benefit from income taxes;  
an increase in U.S. research and development tax credits; and  
The inclusion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation in the provision for income taxes has increased the fluctuation of the effective tax rates in recent periods. This fluctuation may continue in future periods, as the amount of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation awards varies depending on our future stock price in relation to the fair value of awards, the timing of RSU vestings, exercise behavior of our stock option holders, and the total value of future grants of stock-based compensation awards.  
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations, quarterly cash dividends, and stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months.  
Cash used in investing activities is primarily driven by the timing of investment maturities and purchases of new investments.  
Since 2004, our Board of Directors has approved annual stock repurchase programs with the aggregate authority to repurchase up to $221.8 million of our common stock. Purchases under these programs have been made on the open market. As of June 30, 2018, $169.4 million had been repurchased, $46 million remained available for repurchase, and $6.4 million had expired.  
Represents activity under our publicly announced stock repurchase programs.  
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, instead of receiving cash from the equity holders, we withheld shares with a value of $21.1 million and $20.7 million for the exercise price of options. These amounts have been excluded from the table above.  
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, we paid cash dividends of $4.7 million and $4.6 million. It is our current intention to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share, however, the Board of Directors may terminate or modify this dividend program at any time without prior notice.  
 + Indicates that the exhibit is being furnished with this report and is not filed as a part of it.  
