On November 6, 2019, we entered into a five-year $100 million, senior secured revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with PNC Bank, National Association (“PNC”). We may use borrowings to finance working capital needs and for general corporate purposes. Subject to specific circumstances, the Credit Agreement allows us to increase the aggregate commitment up to $200 million. See Item 5. “Other Information” for additional information.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
On November 6, 2019, we entered into a five-year $100 million senior secured revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with PNC Bank, National Association (“PNC”). We may use borrowings to finance working capital needs and for general corporate purposes. Subject to specific circumstances, the Credit Agreement allows us to increase the aggregate commitment up to $200 million.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, and events of default. Principal covenants include a maximum net consolidated leverage ratio of 3.5 (with a step-up in the event of certain acquisitions) and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio of 3.5. Our obligations under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement, which includes, among other things, payment defaults, defaults in the performance of 
•a base rate (which is the highest of (1) PNC’s prime rate, (2) the Federal Funds open rate in effect on such day plus 0.5%, and (3) the daily LIBOR Rate plus 1%) plus an interest margin based on our net consolidated leverage ratio. 
We are obligated to pay an unused commitment fee during the term of the Credit Agreement that varies between 0.15% and 0.225% depending on our net consolidated leverage ratio. The credit facility includes a provision for the replacement of the LIBOR rate in the event that such rate is no longer available. The replacement rate will be determined by PNC in consultation with us. The revolving credit facility may be prepaid before maturity in whole or in part at our option without penalty or premium. We may at any time reduce or terminate the commitments under the credit facility.
The description of the Credit Agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
+ Indicates that the exhibit is being furnished with this report and is not filed as a part of it.
