We develop, market, license, and support software applications for customer engagement and digital process automation, in addition to licensing our Pega Platform application development product for clients that wish to build and extend their own applications. The Pega Platform and applications help connect enterprises to their customers in real-time across channels, streamline business operations, and adapt to meet changing requirements.  
Our clients include Global 3000 companies and government agencies that seek to manage complex enterprise systems and customer service issues with greater agility and cost-effectiveness. Our strategy is to sell a client a series of licenses, each focused on a specific purpose or area of operations in support of longer term enterprise-wide digital transformation initiatives.  
Performance metrics  
Subscription revenue reflects client arrangements (term license, cloud, and maintenance) which may be subject to a renewal.  
Table of Contents 
Annual Contract Value (“ACV”)(1)  
The change in ACV measures the growth and predictability of future cash flows from committed term, cloud, and maintenance arrangements as of the end of the particular reporting period.  
the sum of the annual value of each term and cloud contract in effect on such date, with the annual value of a term or cloud contract being equal to the total value of the contract divided by the total number of years of the contract.  
Remaining performance obligations (formerly reported as “committed not yet recognized revenue”)  
Table of Contents 
Note 2. “New Accounting Pronouncements”, Note 4. “Receivables, Contract Assets, and Deferred Revenue”, and Note 9. “Revenue” contained in Item 1. “Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2018.  
Revenue  
Our clients’ contracts with us typically contain promises by us to provide multiple products and services. Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract. We allocate the transaction price to the distinct performance obligations based on relative stand-alone selling price. We estimate stand-alone selling price based on the prices charged to clients, or by using information such as market conditions and other observable inputs. However, the selling price of our software licenses and cloud performance obligations are highly variable. Thus, we estimate stand-alone selling price for software licenses and cloud performance obligations using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price minus the stand-alone selling price of other performance obligations promised in the contract.  
Revenue  
Subscription revenue reflects client arrangements (term license, cloud, and maintenance) which may be subject to a renewal.  
Our license revenue is primarily derived from sales of our applications and Pega Platform. Our cloud revenue is derived from our hosted Pega Platform and software applications. Our consulting revenue is primarily related to new license implementations.  
Table of Contents 
Subscription revenue  
The decrease in term license revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to $17 million of revenue recognized in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from a large term license renewal. The decrease in term license revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to $35.3 million of revenue recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2017 from a large term license renewal.  
The increases in cloud revenue in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 reflect the shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements from other types of arrangements.  
The increase in perpetual license revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to revenue recognized from license rights which became effective in the current period from perpetual arrangements executed in prior periods, primarily the three months ended June 30, 2018. The decrease in perpetual license revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 reflects the shift in client preferences away from perpetual license arrangements.  
The increase in consulting revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to higher billable hours driven by an increase in the number of projects performed.  
Gross profit  
Maintenance and cloud gross profit percent  
The increases in maintenance gross profit percent in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were driven by decreases of $0.3 million and $1.5 million in compensation and benefits due to decreased headcount and a decrease in client support expenses as we transferred resources to provide dedicated support to our growing cloud business.  
The increases in cloud gross profit percent in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were primarily due to continued growth and scale in our cloud business, partially offset by an increase in client support expenses as we expanded our cloud client support function to sustain our growing cloud business.  
Table of Contents 
Consulting gross profit percent  
The decreases in consulting gross profit percent in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were driven primarily by increases in compensation and benefits, lower utilization rates, and the impact of our policy introduced late in the three months ended June 30, 2017 to offer our web-based training free of charge to users which reduced training revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.  
Operating expenses  
Selling and marketing  
The increases in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $15.2 million and $40.6 million, as a result of increased headcount, increased deferred contract commission costs amortization of $1.2 million and $3.3 million, and an increase in marketing programs in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of $3.1 million. The increase in headcount reflects our efforts to increase our sales capacity to deepen relationships with existing clients and target new accounts.  
Research and development  
Includes compensation, benefits, contracted services, and other headcount-related expenses associated with the creation and development of our products, as well as enhancements and design changes to existing products and the integration of acquired technologies.  
The increases in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $4 million and $9.5 million, attributable to increased headcount and the expansion of our application development team to support the continued development of our expanding suite of software.  
General and administrative  
Includes compensation, benefits, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, corporate governance, and other administrative headcount. They also include accounting, legal, and other professional consulting and administrative fees. The general and administrative headcount includes employees in information technology and corporate services departments, whose costs are partially allocated to other operating expense areas.  
Table of Contents 
Stock-based compensation  
The increase in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to the increased value of our annual periodic equity awards granted in March 2018 and 2017. These awards generally have a five-year vesting schedule.  
Non-operating income (expense), net  
The change in foreign currency transaction gain (loss) was primarily due to unrealized gains on foreign currency denominated cash and receivables.  
excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 of $15.1 million and $22.4 million were disproportionately greater than (loss) income before benefit from income taxes;  
an increase in utilization of U.S. research and development tax credits; and  
Table of Contents 
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations, quarterly cash dividends, and stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months.  
Cash provided by operating activities  
As client preferences continue to shift in favor of cloud arrangements, we could experience slower operating cash flow growth in the near term. Cash from cloud arrangements is generally collected throughout the service period, while cash from perpetual license arrangements is generally collected upfront, shortly after the license rights become effective.  
The primary driver during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $57.6 million in cash generated from receivables and contract assets, largely due to cash collections and the timing of billings.  
The primary driver during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was net income of $58 million and $36.8 million in cash generated from receivables and contract assets, largely due to cash collections and the timing of billings.  
Cash used in investing activities  
Cash used in investing activities is primarily driven by the timing of investment maturities and purchases of new investments.  
Cash used in financing activities  
Purchases under these programs have been made on the open market.  
Table of Contents 
Represents activity under our publicly announced stock repurchase programs.  
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, instead of receiving cash from the equity holders, we withheld shares with a value of $28.2 million and $23.7 million for the exercise price of options. These amounts have been excluded from the table above.  
Dividends  
It is our current intention to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share, however, the Board of Directors may terminate or modify the dividend program at any time without prior notice.  
 ITEM 2.  
The following table sets forth information regarding our repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended September 30, 2018.  
 + Indicates that the exhibit is being furnished with this report and is not filed as a part of it.  
 ++ Management contracts and compensatory plan or arrangements  
Table of Contents 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  
