See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification 842 “Leases” (“ASC 842”) using the modified retrospective method, reflecting any cumulative effect as an adjustment to equity. Results for reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019 are presented under ASC 842, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the Company’s historical accounting under ASC 840 “Leases”.
See Note 9. “Leases” for additional information.
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,” which requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost, including accounts receivable, upon initial recognition of that financial asset using a forward-looking expected loss model, rather than an incurred loss model. Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses when the fair value is below the amortized cost of the asset, removing the concept of “other-than-temporary” impairments. The effective date for the Company will be January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.
As of September 30, 2019, maturities of marketable securities ranged from May 2020 to August 2022, with a weighted-average remaining maturity of approximately 1.5 years.
Receivables
Unbilled receivables are client committed amounts for which revenue recognition precedes billing, and billing is solely subject to the passage of time.
Contract assets and deferred revenue
 (1) Included in other long-term liabilities.
The change in deferred revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily due to revenue recognized during the period that was included in deferred revenue at December 31, 2018, partially offset by new billings in advance of revenue recognition.
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
•Level 1 - observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 
•Level 2 - significant other inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly; and 
The Company’s cash equivalents are composed of money market funds and time deposits, which are classified within Level 1 and Level 2, respectively, in the fair value hierarchy. The Company’s marketable securities, which are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, are valued based on a market approach using quoted prices, when available, or matrix pricing compiled by third-party pricing vendors, using observable market inputs such as interest rates, yield curves, and credit risk. The Company’s investments in privately-held companies are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
If applicable, the Company will recognize transfers into and out of levels within the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period in which the actual event or change in circumstance occurs. There were no transfers between levels during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
For certain other financial instruments, including accounts receivable and accounts payable, the carrying value approximates fair value due to the relatively short maturity of these items.
The Company’s leases are primarily for office space used in the ordinary course of business. 
Accounting policy
All the Company’s leases are operating leases. The Company accounts for a contract as a lease when it has the right to control the asset for a period of time while obtaining substantially all of the asset’s economic benefits. The Company determines the initial classification and measurement of its operating right of use assets and lease liabilities at the lease commencement date and thereafter if modified. Fixed lease costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Variable lease costs are recognized in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred. The Company combines lease and non-lease components in the determination of lease costs for its office space leases. The lease liability includes lease payments related to options to extend or renew the lease term if the Company is 
Expense
Right of use assets and lease liabilities
Geographic revenue
Revenue streams
Remaining performance obligations (“RPO”)
Major clients
Expense
As of September 30, 2019, the Company had $95.6 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company issued 1.1 million shares of common stock under the Company’s stock-based compensation plans.
Basic earnings per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period, plus the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and RSUs, using the treasury stock method. In periods of loss, all stock options and RSUs are excluded, as their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.
On November 6, 2019, the Company entered into a five-year $100 million, senior secured revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with PNC Bank, National Association (“PNC”). The Company may use borrowings to finance working capital needs and for general corporate purposes. Subject to specific circumstances, the Credit Agreement allows the Company to increase the aggregate commitment up to $200 million.
The Credit Agreement contains customary covenants, including, but not limited to, those relating to additional indebtedness, liens, asset divestures and affiliate transactions. The Company is also required to comply with financial covenants that consist of a maximum net consolidated leverage ratio of 3.5 (with a step-up in the event of certain acquisitions) and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio of 3.5. The commitments expire on November 4, 2024, and any outstanding loans will be payable on such date.
On November 6, 2019, we entered into a five-year $100 million, senior secured revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with PNC Bank, National Association (“PNC”). We may use borrowings to finance working capital needs and for general corporate purposes. Subject to specific circumstances, the Credit Agreement allows us to increase the aggregate commitment up to $200 million. See Item 5. “Other Information” for additional information.
