We develop, market, license, and support enterprise software applications that help organizations transform the way they engage with their customers and process and complete work across their enterprise. We also license our no-code Pega Platform™ for rapid application development to clients that wish to build and extend their own business applications. Our cloud-architected portfolio of customer engagement and digital process automation applications leverages artificial intelligence (“AI”), case management, and robotic automation technology, built on our unified no-code Pega Platform, empowering businesses to quickly design, extend, and scale their enterprise applications to meet strategic business needs.
Our target clients are Global 3000 organizations and government agencies that require applications to differentiate themselves in the markets they serve. Our applications achieve and facilitate differentiation by increasing business agility, driving growth, improving productivity, attracting and retaining customers, and reducing risk. We deliver applications tailored to our clients’ specific industry needs.
The change in ACV measures the growth and predictability of future cash flows from Pega Cloud and Client Cloud committed arrangements as of the end of the particular reporting period. 
There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Our license revenue is derived from sales of our applications and Pega Platform. Our cloud revenue is derived from our hosted Pega Platform and software applications.
The increases in cloud revenue in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 reflect the shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements from other types of arrangements.
The increases in maintenance revenue in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were primarily due to the continued growth in the aggregate value of the installed base of our software and strong renewal rates in excess of 90%.
The increase in perpetual license revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily due to revenue recognized from a large perpetual license contract in the second quarter of 2019. The decrease in perpetual license revenue in the six months ended June 30, 2019 reflects the shift in client preferences in favor of our cloud offerings instead of our perpetual license arrangements.
The recent shift in our revenue mix toward cloud arrangements has resulted in slower total gross profit growth as our cloud business continues to grow and scale. Revenue from cloud arrangements is generally recognized over the service period, while revenue from term and perpetual license arrangements is generally recognized upfront when the license rights become effective.
The increase in total gross profit in the three months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily due to an increase in cloud revenue reflecting the shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements from other types of arrangements, and an increase in maintenance revenue due to the continued growth in the aggregate value of the installed base of our software and strong renewal rates in excess of 90%. The decrease in total gross profit in the six months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in term and perpetual license revenue reflecting the shift in client preferences toward our cloud offerings and a decrease in consulting revenue due to a decrease in billable hours.
The increase in total gross profit percent in the three months ended June 30, 2019 was driven by an increase in higher margin maintenance revenue. The decrease in total gross profit percent in the six months ended June 30, 2019 was driven by the shift in client preferences in favor of cloud arrangements, which are lower margin than our term and perpetual license revenue streams.
The decreases in cloud gross profit percent in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were driven by an increase in costs as we accelerated our investments in cloud infrastructure and service delivery to support future growth. The decrease in consulting gross profit percent in the six months ended June 30, 2019 was driven by a decrease in billable hours as consulting resources were transitioning to new projects after completing a large project and an increase in consulting resource availability as we continue growing and leveraging our partner network.
The increases in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $17.7 million and $35.4 million, attributable to increased headcount, equity compensation, and increases of $2.1 million and $6.6 million in deferred contract cost amortization. The increase in headcount reflects our efforts to increase our sales capacity to deepen relationships with existing clients and target new accounts.
The increase in the three months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $1.7 million, due to increased headcount.
The increases in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were primarily due to the increased value of our annual periodic equity awards granted in March 2019 and 2018. These awards generally have a five-year vesting schedule.
The changes in foreign currency transaction gain (loss) were primarily due to the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates associated with our foreign currency denominated cash, accounts receivable, and intercompany receivables and payables held by our United Kingdom (“U.K.”) subsidiary.
The inclusion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation in the provision for income taxes has increased the variability of the effective tax rates in recent periods. This fluctuation may continue in future periods, as the amount of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation awards varies depending on our future stock price in relation to the fair value of awards, the timing of RSU vestings, the exercise behavior of our stock option holders, and the total value of future grants of stock-based compensation awards.
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations, quarterly cash dividends, and stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months.
As client preferences continue to shift in favor of cloud arrangements, we could continue to experience slower operating cash flow growth in the near term. Cash from cloud arrangements is generally collected over an average service period of three years, while cash from perpetual license arrangements is generally collected upfront, shortly after the license rights become effective.
The primary driver of the decrease in the six months ended June 30, 2019 was the recent shift in our revenue mix toward cloud arrangements, which are generally collected over an average service period of three years, and increased costs as the Company accelerated investments in its cloud offerings and selling and marketing activities to support future growth.
The change in cash provided by (used in) investing activities was primarily driven by the timing of investment maturities and sales, purchases of new investments, and the payment of consideration for the acquisition of In the Chat Communications Inc. in May 2019.
We primarily used cash in financing activities for repurchases of our common stock under our publicly announced stock repurchase programs, stock repurchases for tax withholdings for the net settlement of our equity awards, and the payment of our quarterly dividend. 
It is our current intention to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share, however, the Board of Directors may terminate or modify the dividend program at any time without prior notice.
The following table sets forth information regarding our repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended June 30, 2019.
In connection with our acquisition of In the Chat Communications Inc. on May 10, 2019 and in reliance on the Regulation D exemption from registration requirements under the Securities Act, we granted an employee the right to obtain up to 14,497 shares of our common stock, which will be issued in five equal tranches contingent upon continued employment. No general solicitation or advertising to market the securities occurred. 
