fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 filed with the SEC.
Interim results of operations for the third fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year.
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30.
The following accounting policies have been updated since our fiscal year 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments, on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
Our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance are included in Note 3.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new lease standard"), which requires lessees to recognize most leases on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
Under the new lease standard, a company recognizes a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a corresponding lease liability for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
Adoption of the new lease standard is required for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The new guidance is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective transition method, and an optional transition method may be elected to use the effective date as the date of initial application on transition.
We intend to adopt the new lease standard for our fiscal year 2020 under the optional transition method with an effective date of September 29, 2019.
We are currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs, and we are currently evaluating the other practical expedients available under the new lease standard.
We continue to make progress with preparation for the adoption and implementation of the new lease standard, including assessing the completeness of our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients and accounting policy elections, revising our lease-related accounting policies, assessing impacts to controls, and implementing a lease software solution.
We anticipate the adoption of the new lease standard will result in an increase in assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new revenue standard" or "ASC 606"), to provide a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
Under the new revenue standard, a company recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method.
We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method.


item2.txt
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the amendment to the Credit Agreement.
See Note 2 and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Income Statements and Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The following tables compare results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation, the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and restructuring costs incurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
See Notes 3, 16 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on the new revenue standard, restructuring and related costs, and the E2M acquisition, respectively.
Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased 3.6% primarily due to increased compensation expense to support sales growth, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation.
Selling and marketing expense for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 4.2% primarily due to increased compensation and commissions expense to support sales growth and the addition of E2M expenses, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation.
Income from operations for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 41.4% and 31.9%, respectively, primarily due to increased gross profit on higher revenue volume and the impact of the E2M acquisition, partially offset by higher compensation expense and acquisition-related expenses.
Interest expense, net for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to an increase in interest expense on the revolving credit facility drawn on in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 to fund the acquisition of E2M, which was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense related to lower balances on the tranche B term loan, as well as current year favorable effects of our interest rate swap.


item3.txt
Mark-to-market gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges in our currency hedging program are recorded within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.
The information below includes additional and updated risks relating to our $350,000 aggregate principal amount 5.750% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (the Notes) and other indebtedness.


