fls.txt
Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 and in Item 1A of Part II of this Current Report on Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
The aforementioned revenue standards and amendments are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 824), which requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
Lessees can forgo recognizing a right-of-use asset and lease liability with lease terms of 12 months or less on the balance sheet through accounting policy elections as long as the lease does not include options to purchase the underlying assets that are reasonably certain to be exercised.
The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.
Assets held under capital leases, consisting of machinery and equipment, are recorded at the present value of minimum lease payments and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
Amortization of assets held as capital leases is included in depreciation expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments.
Carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities are equal to the fair value.
Carrying amount of the financial asset is equal to the fair value.
These assets were initially measured and recognized at amounts equal to the fair value determined as of the date of acquisition or purchase subject to changes in value only for foreign currency translation.
Periodically, these assets are tested for impairment by comparing their respective carrying values to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit or asset group in which they reside.
In the event any of these assets were to become impaired, we would recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit, impaired asset or asset group exceeds its estimated fair value.
Fair value measurements of the reporting units associated with our goodwill balances and our indefinite-lived intangible assets are estimated at least annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year for purposes of impairment testing if a quantitative analysis is performed.
Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate.
These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.
1 The fair value of the 8.75% tangible equity units (TEUs) is based on the most recently quoted price for the outstanding securities, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value.


item2.txt
the impact in our first quarter of fiscal year 2018 results.
See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the impact of the Tax Act. Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our financial results are principally exposed to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Chinese yuan.
The following table compares results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on restructuring and related costs.
As a result of the PCB acquisition, we incurred certain non-recurring costs during fiscal year 2017 including acquisition integration costs and a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory.
Revenue for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 2.6% primarily due to a decrease in Test revenue, partially offset by revenue growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Test revenue decreased $12,923 primarily driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017.
Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog weighting which takes longer to convert into revenue.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 4.6%.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 10% appreciation or depreciation in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, assuming all other variables are held constant, would result in an increase or decrease in revenue of approximately $6,832 for the three months ended December 30, 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
The following table presents repurchases of our equity securities we made during the fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2017.


