The aforementioned revenue standards and amendments are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 824), which requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
Lessees can forgo recognizing a right-of-use asset and lease liability with lease terms of 12 months or less on the balance sheet through accounting policy elections as long as the lease does not include options to purchase the underlying assets that are reasonably certain to be exercised.
The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.
We record general warranty provisions based on an estimated warranty expense percentage applied to current period revenue.
Assets held under capital leases, consisting of machinery and equipment, are recorded at the present value of minimum lease payments and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
Amortization of assets held as capital leases is included in depreciation expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments.
Carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities are equal to the fair value.See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the impact of the Tax Act. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives.
The following table compares results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on restructuring and related costs.
As a result of the PCB acquisition, we incurred certain non-recurring costs during fiscal year 2017 including acquisition integration costs and a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory (PCB acquisition inventory adjustment).
Revenue for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 declined 1.1% and 1.8%, respectively, primarily driven by lower Test revenue, partially offset by growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 6.0% and 5.3%, respectively.A hypothetical 10% appreciation or depreciation in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, assuming all other variables are held constant, would result in an increase or decrease in revenue of approximately $15,023 for the six months ended March 31, 2018.A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.