Item 1. Financial Statements (Unaudited) 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets 
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income 
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity 
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 
Overview of Business 
Basis of Presentation 
The unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all wholly owned divisions, including its 60% majority-owned subsidiary, Taitron Components Mexico, S.A. de C.V. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
New Accounting Pronouncements 
In May 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718. Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions, or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions. This guidance was effective in our first quarter of 2019. The adoption of this guidance has not had a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 
Revenue recognition 
Nature of products 
Distribution Components - Our name brand electronic components. 
Disaggregation of revenue 
$186,000 relates to 317,428 shares of preferred convertible debt of ZT with our option after 3 (three) years to convert the investment into common stock or refundable bearing 7% annual interest rate.    
Both investments in ZT are accounted for under the cost (plus impairment) basis of accounting. 
We made payments to K.S. Best International Co. Ltd., a company controlled by the brother of our Chief Executive Officer of approximately $0 and $6,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively and $0 and $18,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. These payments were for professional fees related to the operational management of our Taiwan office. In addition, we also made interest expense payments on our prior credit facility of approximately $0 and $9,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
At September 30, 2019, the range of individual outstanding weighted average exercise prices was $1.02 to $2.68. 
Inventory Purchasing 
Outstanding commitments to purchase inventory from suppliers aggregated $980,000 as of September 30, 2019. 
Item 1A. Risk Factors. - Not Applicable 
