fls.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.


item1.txt
As a result of the adoption of ASC 606 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," Cognex Corporation (the "Company") has provided new disclosures related to revenue recognition in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
In the opinion of the management of the Company, the accompanying consolidated unaudited financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal, recurring adjustments and financial statement reclassifications, necessary to present fairly the Company’s financial position as of July 1, 2018, and the results of its operations for the three-month and six-month periods ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017, and changes in shareholders’ equity, comprehensive income, and cash flows for the periods presented.
The Company identifies performance obligations as promises in contracts to transfer distinct goods or services.
Application-specific customer solutions that are comprised of a combination of products and services are accounted for as one performance obligation to deliver a total solution to the customer.
Shipping and handling activities for which the Company is responsible under the terms and conditions of the sale are not accounted for as performance obligations but as fulfillment costs.
These activities are required to fulfill the Company’s promise to transfer the goods and are expensed when revenue is recognized.
The Company does not assess whether promised goods or services are performance obligations if they are immaterial in the context of the contract.
If revenue is recognized before immaterial promises have been completed, then the costs related to such immaterial promises are accrued at the time of sale.
The Company includes estimated variable consideration in the transaction price only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved.
The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation at contract inception based on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, or the price at which the Company would sell the good or service separately to similar customers in similar circumstances.
The Company recognizes revenue when it transfers the promised goods or services to the customer.
Revenue for services, which are not material, is typically recognized over the time the service is provided.
Revenue for application-specific customer solutions is recognized at the point in time when the solution is validated, which is the point in time when the Company can objectively determine that the agreed-upon specifications in the contract have been met and the customer will accept the performance obligations in the arrangement.
In certain instances, an arrangement may include customer-specified acceptance provisions or performance guarantees that allow the customer to accept or reject delivered products that do not meet the customer’s specifications.
If the Company can objectively determine that control of a good or service has been transferred to the customer in accordance with the agreed-upon specifications in the contract, then customer acceptance is a formality.
For the Company’s standard products and services, revenue recognition and billing typically occur at the same time.
Such judgments include, but are not limited to, assessing the customer’s ability and intention to pay substantially all of the contract consideration when due, determining when two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as a single contract, determining whether a contract modification has occurred, assessing whether promises are immaterial in the context of the contract, determining whether material promises in a contract represent distinct performance obligations, estimating the transaction price for a contract that contains variable consideration, determining the stand-alone selling price of each performance obligation, determining whether control is transferred over time or at a point in time for performance obligations, and assessing whether formal customer acceptance provisions are substantive.
This ASU applies to any entity that enters into a lease, although lessees will see the most significant changes.
The main difference between current GAAP and Topic 842 is the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for those leases classified as operating leases under current GAAP.
Although this ASU is required to be applied using a modified retrospective approach, the Financial Accounting Standards Board is reportedly in the final stages of issuing an optional transition method allowing entities to apply the amendments of this Update as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings.


item2.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The Company’s customers are predominantly in the factory automation market.
Customers in the consumer electronics and automotive industries contribute the largest percentage to the Company's factory automation revenue.
Most manufacturers can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, this market also includes a broad base of customers across a variety of other industries, including consumer products, food and beverage, medical devices, and pharmaceuticals.
Factory automation customers also purchase Cognex products for use outside of the manufacturing process, such as using ID products in logistics automation for package sorting and distribution.
Revenue for the second quarter of 2018 totaled $211,264,000, representing an increase of 19% from the second quarter of 2017 driven primarily by strong sales in the logistics and automotive industries.
declined to 74% of revenue in the second quarter of 2018 from 76% of revenue in the second quarter of 2017 due primarily to a higher percentage of revenue related to application-specific customer solutions.
Operating expenses increased by 23% over the second quarter of 2017 due principally to the impact of headcount additions to support the higher revenue level and future growth plans.


item4.txt
As required by Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has evaluated, with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in such rules) as of the end of the period covered by this report.


part2.txt
Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.


