fls.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.


item1.txt
As permitted by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, these notes are condensed and do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
The core principle of ASC 842 is that a lessee should recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities that arise from leases.
At inception of a contract, the Company determines whether that contract is or contains a lease.
As a practical expedient, the Company does not recognize a lease asset or lease liability for leases with a lease term of 12 months or less.
As a practical expedient, the Company accounts for the non-lease components together with the lease components as a single lease component for all of its leases.
The Company’s incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments over a similar term, which is the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a 2.5% credit risk spread.
The amortization of the lease asset is calculated as the straight-line lease expense less the accretion of the interest on the lease liability each period.
ASU 2016-13 applies to all reporting entities holding financial assets that are not accounted for at fair value through net income (debt securities).
The amendments in this ASU require that credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities be presented as an allowance rather than as a write-down and an entity will be able to record reversals of credit losses in current period net income.
ASU 2017-08 applies to all reporting entities that hold investments in callable debt securities that have an amortized cost basis in excess of the amount that is repayable by the issuer at the earliest call date (that is, at a premium).
The amendments in this ASU shorten the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium.
Under current GAAP, premiums and discounts on callable debt securities generally are amortized to the maturity date.
This ASU should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption, and, in the period of adoption, the entity is required to provide disclosures about the change in accounting principle.
Accordingly, the amendments in this ASU require an entity in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract to follow the guidance in Subtopic 350-40 to determine which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense.
The Company did not record an other-than-temporary impairment of these financial assets during the three-month or nine-month periods ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
The Company's contingent consideration liabilities are reported at fair value based upon probability-adjusted present values of the consideration expected to be paid using significant inputs that are not observable in the market and are therefore classified as Level 3.
Non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill, and intangible assets are required to be measured at fair value only when an impairment loss is recognized.
The Company did not record an impairment charge related to these assets during the three-month or nine-month periods ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
The Company recorded gross realized gains and gross realized losses on the sale of debt securities totaling $361,000 and $67,000, respectively, during the three-month period ended September 29, 2019 and $283,000 and $17,000, respectively, during the three-month period ended September 30, 2018.


item2.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
Virtually every manufacturer can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, Cognex products are used by a broad base of customers across a variety of industries, including consumer electronics, automotive, consumer products, food and beverage, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices.
Revenue for the third quarter of 2019 totaled $183,325,000, representing a decrease of 21% from the third quarter of 2018 driven by significantly lower revenue in the consumer electronics industry.
Operating expenses in the third quarter of 2019 decreased by 3% over the third quarter of 2018 due principally to lower expenses related to incentive compensation plans.
We generally refer to such amounts calculated on a constant-currency basis as excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not have a material impact on revenue for either period presented.
Sales to customers based in Europe decreased by 46% for the three-month period and 26% for the nine-month period driven by lower sales in the consumer electronics industry, and to a lessor extent, the automotive industry.
The decline would have been larger in Greater China, and less extreme in Europe, if not for procurement changes made by certain consumer electronics customers, shifting their purchases to China from Europe.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.


