fls.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.


item1.txt
As permitted by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, these notes are condensed and do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
The core principle of ASC 842 is that a lessee should recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities that arise from leases.
As a practical expedient, the Company does not recognize a lease asset or lease liability for leases with a lease term of 12 months or less.
In the determination of the lease term, the Company considers the existence of extension or termination options and the probability of those options being exercised.
As a practical expedient, the Company accounts for the non-lease components together with the lease components as a single lease component for all of its leases.
The Company’s incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments over a similar term, which is the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a 2.5% credit risk spread.
ASU 2016-13 applies to all reporting entities holding financial assets that are not accounted for at fair value through net income (debt securities).
The amendments in this ASU require that credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities be presented as an allowance rather than as a write-down and an entity will be able to record reversals of credit losses in current period net income.
ASU 2017-08 applies to all reporting entities that hold investments in callable debt securities that have an amortized cost basis in excess of the amount that is repayable by the issuer at the earliest call date (that is, at a premium).
The amendments in this ASU shorten the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium.
Under current GAAP, premiums and discounts on callable debt securities generally are amortized to the maturity date.
This ASU should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption, and, in the period of adoption, the entity is required to provide disclosures about the change in accounting principle.
Accordingly, the amendments in this ASU require an entity in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract to follow the guidance in Subtopic 350-40 to determine which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense.
The Company’s money market instruments are reported at fair value based upon the daily market price for identical assets in active markets, and are therefore classified as Level 1.
The Company did not record an other-than-temporary impairment of these financial assets during the three-month or six-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018.
The Company's contingent consideration liabilities are reported at fair value based upon probability-adjusted present values of the consideration expected to be paid using significant inputs that are not observable in the market and are therefore classified as Level 3.
Non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill, and intangible assets are required to be measured at fair value only when an impairment loss is recognized.
The Company did not record an impairment charge related to these assets during the three-month or six-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018.


item2.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
Virtually every manufacturer can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, Cognex products are used by a broad base of customers across a variety of industries, including consumer electronics, automotive, consumer products, food and beverage, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue remained consistent at 74% for each of the second quarter of 2019 and 2018.
Operating expenses in the second quarter of 2019 increased by 3% over the second quarter of 2018 due principally to the impact of headcount additions to support our future growth plans.
Operating income was 26% of revenue in the second quarter of 2019 compared to 30% of revenue in the second quarter of 2018; net income was 24% of revenue in the second quarter of 2019 compared to 27% of revenue in the second quarter of 2018; and net income per diluted share was $0.28 in the second quarter of 2019 compared to $0.32 in the second quarter of 2018.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for a decrease in revenue of approximately 3 percentage points in both periods, as sales denominated in Euros and Chinese Yuan were translated to U.S.
Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, constant-currency revenue decreased by 3% for the three-month period and increased by 1% for the six-month period.
Sales to customers based in Europe decreased by 16% for the three-month period and 6% for the six-month period, with changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounting for approximately 6 percentage points of the decrease in both periods.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.


