Amortization expense was $4.5 and $4.4 for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets for the remainder of fiscal 2019 and for fiscal 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024 is $13.3, $17.1, $16.5, $16.3, $16.3, and $16.2, respectively, and $166.7 thereafter. 
In February 2018, the Company announced Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of the Company’s business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure, and key processes that will enable the Company to achieve its desired future state operations. 
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, L.L.C. (“Jack Black”), a men’s luxury skincare products company based in the U.S., for $90.2, net of cash acquired. The acquisition creates opportunities to expand the Company’s personal care portfolio into a growing global category where it can leverage its international geographic footprint. The acquisition was financed through available operating cash. 
On October 3, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its Playtex gloves business to a household products company (the “Acquirer”) for $19.0 to allow the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines. The agreement also provided the Acquirer with indefinite and exclusive worldwide rights to the Playtex trademark for gloves. The sale was completed on October 26, 2017. Total assets sold were approximately $3.1 resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The gain on sale of Playtex gloves recognized for fiscal year 2018 was $15.3.
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Edgewell” or the “Company”), is one of the world’s largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care, and infant care categories. Edgewell has a portfolio of over 25 brands and a global footprint in more than 50 countries. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued an ASU clarifying the definition of a business, reducing the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated, and providing a framework to assist entities in evaluating whether both an input and a substantive process are present. The amendments set forth in the ASU specify that when the fair value of the gross assets acquired or disposed of is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similarly identifiable assets, the integrated set of assets and activities is not a business. The guidance also requires that an integrated set of assets and activities must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output to be considered a business and removes the evaluation of whether a market participant could replace the missing elements. The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018. The impact of the ASU will be dependent upon the nature of any future acquisitions or dispositions made by the Company.
Accounts receivables sold under this agreement for the quarter ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were $213.9 and $210.1, respectively. The trade receivables sold that remained outstanding under this agreement as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018 were $78.2 and $77.9, respectively. The net proceeds received were included in cash provided by operating activities and cash provided by investing activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The difference between the carrying amount of the trade receivables sold and the sum of the cash received is recorded as a loss on sale of receivables in Other expense (income), net in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the loss on sale of trade receivables was $0.6 and $0.4, respectively. 
For the three months ended December 31, 2018, the discrete tax adjustment for the one-time transition tax on foreign earnings was $4.7 compared to $97.2 for the three months ended December 31, 2017. The December 31, 2017 transition tax expense was offset by the estimated benefit of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities of $81.0, resulting in a net charge of $16.2 for the period, which was included as a component of income tax expense. The Company has tax loss carryforwards and tax credits, a portion of which are expected to be used to partially offset amounts payable over eight years related to the one-time transition tax on foreign earnings.
In addition, the Company offers a variety of programs, such as consumer coupons and rebate programs, primarily to its retail customers, designed to promote sales of its products. Such programs require periodic payments and allowances based on estimated results of specific programs and are recorded as a reduction to Net sales. The Company accrues, at the time of sale, the estimated total payments and allowances associated with each transaction. Additionally, the Company offers programs directly to consumers to promote the sale of its products. Promotions which reduce the ultimate consumer sale prices are recorded as a reduction of Net sales at the time the promotional offer is made using estimated redemption and participation levels. Taxes the Company collects on behalf of governmental authorities, which are generally included in the price to the customer, are also recorded as a reduction of Net sales. The Company continually assesses the adequacy of accruals for customer and consumer promotional program costs not yet paid. To the extent total program payments differ from estimates, adjustments may be necessary. Historically, these adjustments have not been material.
During fiscal 2018, the Company recorded impairment charges of $24.4 on the goodwill of the Infant Care reporting unit. The value of the Infant Care reporting unit decreased and required an impairment because of higher discount rates, lower forecasted revenue growth rates, and earnings margins, which resulted in lower projected long-term future cash flows when interim impairment analysis was performed.Cash flow used by investing activities was $2.9 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to cash from investing activities of $11.2 during the same period in the prior year. The change was primarily due to the sale of the Playtex gloves business in fiscal 2018 for $19.0, partially offset by reduced capital expenditures of $9.4 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to $11.6 during the same period in the prior year. Additionally, investing cash inflows of $2.5 and $1.7 were reclassified from operating activities as a result of collections on the deferred purchase price of accounts receivables sold. 
Gross profit was $193.5 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as compared to $199.3 in the prior year period. Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was 42.3%, representing a 30 basis point decline over the prior year gross margin of 42.6%. Excluding $0.1 of costs associated with the Sun Care Reformulation, gross margin decreased 20 basis points to 42.4%. The impact of lower volumes across all segments (70 basis points) and unfavorable price mix in Wet Shave, Infant Care, and Feminine Care (40 basis points) was mostly offset by favorable cost mix (60 basis points) driven by lower operational spending. 
Sun and Skin Care segment net sales and segment profit are affected by the seasonality of sun care products. As a result, segment net sales and segment profit historically have been higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. 
Project Fuel is an enterprise-wide transformational initiative, launched in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure and key processes that will enable us to achieve its desired future state operations. 
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 12.9%, inclusive of a 20.0% increase due to the acquisition of Jack Black, partially offset by a 1.7% decline from the disposition of the Playtex gloves business and a 1.5% decline due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of the Jack Black acquisition, sale of the Playtex gloves business, and currency movements, organic net sales decreased $2.3, or 3.9%, primarily driven by sales declines in key Asia Pacific and Latin American markets that were impacted by supply constraints related to the Sun Care reformulation project announced in the prior quarter. Sales in North America increased due to favorable Sun Care price mix and volume growth in Bulldog. Globally, Bulldog sales increased nearly 27% with growth coming from both International and North American markets.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, net sales were $457.1, a 2.4% decrease when compared with the prior year period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Jack Black, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 3.5% versus the prior year period, as overall volumes decreased primarily in North America and Latin America offset by growth in Europe and Asia Pacific. Feminine Care had declines in volumes across all brands of tampons and pads. All Other was impacted by lower volumes as refill sales were down and unfavorable price mix. Wet Shave was impacted by unfavorable price mix in the quarter.
All Other net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 13.8%, inclusive of a 0.6% decline from the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales declined 13.2% compared to the prior year quarter driven by lower Diaper Genie sales and the impact of the Toys "R" Us liquidation.