Amortization expense was $4.4 and $4.0 for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets for the remainder of fiscal 2018 and for fiscal 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 is $11.7, $14.8, $14.2, $13.6, $13.5 and $13.5, respectively, and $152.8 thereafter. 
Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 
In addition, pre-tax costs of $0.3 for the three months ended December 31, 2016, associated with obsolescence charges related to the exit of certain non-core product lines as part of the restructuring were included in Cost of products sold. 
The Company's operating model includes some shared business functions across the segments, including product warehousing and distribution, transaction processing functions and in most cases a combined sales force and management teams. The Company applies a fully allocated cost basis, in which shared business functions are allocated between the segments. Such allocations are estimates, and do not represent the costs of such services if performed on a stand-alone basis.
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell" or the "Company"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories. Edgewell has a portfolio of over 25 brands and a global footprint in more than 50 countries. 
On January 15, 2018, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire Jack Black, L.L.C. ("Jack Black"), a leading U.S. based luxury men's skincare products company based in Dallas, Texas. The acquisition, which is expected to close in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, will create opportunities to expand Edgewell's personal care portfolio in growing categories in the U.S. and globally, while nurturing the brand equity of Jack Black. The transaction will be funded from operating cash.For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, general corporate expenses were $18.4, or 3.9% of net sales, as compared to $16.4, or 3.4% of net sales, in the prior year quarter. The increase in corporate expenses compared to the prior year quarter was driven by a loss on the sale of an asset related to our ZBS initiative and executive severance related charges.
Sun and Skin Care segment net sales and segment profit are affected by the seasonality of sun care products. As a result, segment net sales and segment profit tend to be higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. 
We expect net sales for the full year to be flat to up 1% compared to the prior year, including a currency benefit of approximately 2%, that is partially offset by a 0.5% decline from the Playtex gloves divestiture, net of acquisitions. Organic net sales for the year are expected to decrease approximately 1%. Wet Shave organic net sales are expected to be relatively flat assuming continued category declines and softening international category trends. Innovation launches by the Company across the Wet Shave segment are expected to grow share in this decelerating environment in addition to expected gains in e-commerce distribution and share. In Sun and Skin Care, organic net sales are expected to grow in the mid to low single digits through product innovation, market expansion and distribution gains, including organic growth in Bulldog. In Feminine Care, sales declines are expected to continue for the majority of fiscal 2018 as a result of distribution losses and competitive pressures.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 2.6%, inclusive of a 4.0% increase due to the acquisition of Bulldog and a 1.6% increase due to currency movements, offset by a 5.6% decline from the disposition of the Playtex gloves business. Excluding the impact of the Bulldog acquisition, sale of the Playtex gloves business and currency movements, organic net sales increased $1.5, or 2.6%, driven by growth in North America of nearly 7% from increased volumes from Banana Boat and Bulldog, offset by higher promotional spending. International organic net sales decreased 2%, primarily driven by volume declines and increased promotional spending in Asia.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, net sales were $468.3, a 3.4% decrease when compared with the prior year period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Bulldog, the sale of the Playtex gloves business and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 5.2% versus the prior year period, as overall volumes decreased primarily in North America Wet Shave and Feminine Care. Wet Shave was impacted by unfavorable price mix in the quarter. Sun and Skin Care organic net sales grew 2.6% in the quarter while organic net sales in All Other was flat. 
All Other net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 1.2%, due to a 1.2% increase from the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales remained flat compared to the prior year quarter as growth in Diaper Genie and Pet Care was offset by declines in infant feeding products.
Segment loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $6.1, a decrease of $6.9 or 862.5%, inclusive of the impact of the acquisition of Bulldog, sale of the Playtex gloves business and currency movements. Excluding the impact of the Bulldog acquisition and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, organic segment profit decreased $4.6, or 575.0%, driven by increased promotional support to close the sun care season and higher product costs in the current year compared to a year ago, when production volumes were high as aerosol production was first insourced at our Ormond Beach plant.
Selling, general and administrative expense was $97.2 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, or 20.8% of net sales, as compared to $93.8 in the prior year period, or 19.3% of net sales. The increase in expenses relates to investments in e-commerce, executive severance, and expense related to one of our Zero Based Spending ("ZBS') initiatives that will yield savings going forward. Amortization expense also increased from the conversion of the Playtex and Edge brand names to definite lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.
gross margin of 47.0%. The gross profit decline was driven by lower sales volumes and unfavorable product mix, higher promotional activity in Wet Shave and Sun and Skin Care, and increased product costs. Higher product costs were primarily driven by lower production volumes in both Feminine Care and Sun and Skin Care manufacturing compared to the prior year, increased costs related to Wet Shave footprint changes, higher commodity costs, and an unfavorable impact from transactional currency.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.Item 5. Other Information.Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 