fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included, unless otherwise disclosed.
001-32253), which was filed on May 30, 2018 (the “2018 Annual Report”).
The four quarters in fiscal 2019 end on July 1, 2018, September 30, 2018, December 30, 2018, and March 31, 2019, respectively.
The four quarters in fiscal 2018 ended on July 2, 2017, October 1, 2017, December 31, 2017, and March 31, 2018, respectively.
The consolidated condensed financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and any partially owned subsidiaries that the Company has the ability to control.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” providing guidance on revenue from contracts with customers that supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
1. identify the contract with a customer; 3. determine the transaction price; 4. allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations; and 5. recognize revenue as the performance obligations are satisfied.
Control of a performance obligation may transfer to the customer either at a point in time or over time depending on an evaluation of the specific facts and circumstances for each contract, including the terms and conditions of the contract as agreed with the customer, as well as the nature of the products or services to be provided.
Each customer purchase order sets forth the transaction price for the products and services purchased under that arrangement.
Control for these services passes to the customer as the services are performed.
Service revenues for the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019 amounted to $37,472 and $106,672, respectively.
A small portion of the Company's customer arrangements oblige the Company to create customized products for its customers that require the bundling of both products and services into a single performance obligation because the individual products and services that are required to fulfill the customer requirements do not meet the definitions for a distinct performance obligation.


item2.txt
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of EnerSys.
Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
The results of operations of Alpha have been included in the Company’s Americas segment beginning December 8, 2018.
Recent indicators continue to suggest a mixed trend in economic activity among the different geographical regions.
Our Asia region continues to grow faster than any other region in which we do business.
Over the past year, on a consolidated basis, we have experienced rising commodity costs.
Our selling prices fluctuated during the last several years to offset the volatile cost of commodities.
Approximately 30% of our revenue is currently subject to agreements that adjust pricing to a market-based index for lead.
On December 7, 2018, we amended the 2017 Credit Facility (as amended, the “Amended Credit Facility”).
The majority of that cash and investments is expected to be utilized to fund local operating activities, capital expenditure requirements and acquisitions.


item3.txt
Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.
We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives.


item4.txt



part2.txt
From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.
See Litigation and Other Legal Matters in Note 8 - Commitments, Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.


