fls.txt
EnerSys and its representatives may, from time to time, make written or verbal forward-looking statements, including statements contained in EnerSys’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and its reports to stockholders.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included, unless otherwise disclosed.
001-32253), which was filed on May 30, 2017 (the “2017 Annual Report”).
The four quarters in fiscal 2018 end on July 2, 2017, October 1, 2017, December 31, 2017, and March 31, 2018, respectively.
The four quarters in fiscal 2017 ended on July 3, 2016, October 2, 2016, January 1, 2017, and March 31, 2017, respectively.
The consolidated condensed financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and any partially owned subsidiaries that the Company has the ability to control.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” providing guidance on revenue from contracts with customers that will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)”, which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e.
This update requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase of the leased asset by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.


item2.txt
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of EnerSys.
These rules require supplemental explanation and reconciliation, which is provided in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
Recent indicators continue to suggest a mixed trend in economic activity among the different geographical regions.
Our Asia region continues to grow faster than any other region in which we do business.
Our most significant commodity and foreign currency exposures are related to lead and the Euro, respectively.
Over the past year, on a consolidated basis, we have experienced rising commodity costs.
Our selling prices fluctuated during the last several years to offset the volatile cost of commodities.
Approximately 30% of our revenue is currently subject to agreements that adjust pricing to a market-based index for lead.
During the nine months of fiscal 2018, we increased our selling prices in response to increased commodity costs.
Net sales increased $95.2 million or 16.9% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
This increase was the result of an 8% increase in organic volume, a 5% increase in foreign currency translation impact and a 4% increase in pricing.


item3.txt
Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.
We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives.


item4.txt



part2.txt
From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.


