item1.txt
Item 1.
Financial Statements.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
The fiscal quarters consist of 13 weeks and end on the Saturday generally nearest each calendar quarter end, adjusted to provide relatively equivalent business days for each fiscal quarter.
At that time, Management believed it was probable that the sale of the building and land would occur in the next twelve months.
These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
Please see Note 6 for a description of and defined terms regarding our Credit Agreement, Amended Credit Agreement, and Second Amended Credit Agreement.
Products revenues are recognized at the point in time in which control of the products transfer to customers.
Services revenues include network integration services, in which revenues are recognized over time either using either a cost-to-cost input method or a time and materials input method as those services are provided.
These maintenance services are generally pre-billed and are recorded in deferred revenue within the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognized into revenues over the service period.
Refer to Note 3 for additional information.
The adoption of ASC 606 had no impact on the Company’s net cash used for operating activities and only resulted in offsetting adjustments to net loss and various working capital balances.
Payments are due from customers after we satisfy these performance obligations.
The following table summarizes information about the Company's contract balances.
While the Company has incremental commission costs associated with contracts greater than one year in duration, these amounts earned were not significant during the period.
The Amended Credit Agreement contains a minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and a provision requiring the Company to repay revolving credit loans with any excess cash.
Interest on the LIFO Facility is LIBOR plus 10.0%.


item2.txt
The fiscal quarters consist of 13 weeks and generally end on the Saturday nearest each calendar quarter end, adjusted to provide relatively equivalent business days for each fiscal quarter.
The actual ending dates for the periods presented as of September 30, 2018 and 2017 were September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
References to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
All dollar amounts are presented in thousands except for per share amounts or unless otherwise noted.
Under our Products platform, we provide networking solutions through the sale of products for KVM switching, IT infrastructure, specialty networking and multimedia.
Factors that impact those verticals, therefore, could have an impact on the Company.
Management strives to develop extensive and long-term relationships with high-quality clients as Management believes that satisfied clients will demand quality services and product offerings from us even in economic downturns.
•a $3,697 increase in interest expense resulting from higher interest rates and higher average debt.
Net cash used for continuing operating activities was $10,281, which included net loss of $15,064 and positive cash from working capital of $2,335, compared to net cash used for continuing operating activities of $15,938, which included net loss of $23,363 and negative cash from working capital of $2,919, in the same period last year.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
On November 11, 2018, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with AGC Networks Pte Ltd., a company organized under the laws of Singapore (“Top Parent”), BBX Main Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Top Parent (“Parent”), BBX Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (“BBX Intermediate”), and Host Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of BBX Intermediate (“Merger Sub”, and, together with Top Parent, Parent and BBX Intermediate, the “Parent Entities” and each, a “Parent Entity”).
The Offer is not subject to a financing condition.


