Financial Statements.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of Black Box have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (the "Form 10-K").
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
All references to dollar amounts herein are presented in thousands, except per share amounts, unless otherwise noted.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Significant estimates in these financial statements include project progress towards completion to estimated budget, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, sales returns, net realizable value of inventories, loss contingencies, warranty reserves, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill.
As of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management believes that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months.The discussion and analysis for the three-months and nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 as set forth below in this Part I, Item 2 should be read in conjunction with the response to Part I, Item 1 of this report and the consolidated financial statements of Black Box Corporation ("Black Box," the "Company," "we" or "our"), including the related notes, and "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (the "Form 10-K").
References to “3Q18” mean the three-month period ended December 31, 2017 while references to “3Q17” mean the three-month period ended December 31, 2016.
The Company offers Services and Products that it distributes through two platforms that it has built over its 41-year history.
New communications systems orders often generate post-implementation maintenance via a fixed fee model where revenues are earned ratably over the term of the agreement (generally 1-3 years for commercial clients and 3-5 years for government clients) or a variable fee model that is based on time and materials per occurrence, similar to MAC work.
The Company's Services business generates backlog which is defined by the Company as orders and contracts considered to be firm.
Under our Products platform, we provide networking solutions through the sale of products for KVM switching, IT infrastructure, specialty networking and multimedia.
Our Products' revenues are generated from sales to key channel partners and system integrators and through a global distribution network.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.Item 1A.