PART II OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.Legal Proceedings



From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business. See Litigation and Other Legal Matters in Note 7 - Commitments, Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 1A.Risk Factors



In addition to the other information set forth in this Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2018 Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2018, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results and the following relating to our recently announced agreement to acquire Alpha. 



The regulatory approvals and any other required approvals in connection with the Transaction may not be obtained on the proposed terms or on the anticipated schedule.



The completion of the Transaction will depend upon a number of conditions being satisfied, including, among others, obtaining all regulatory approvals required to complete the Transaction, including the expiration or early termination of the waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the “HSR Act”) and any required foreign regulatory approvals, and the absence of any injunction prohibiting the Transaction and absence of any legal requirements enacted by a court or other governmental entity since the date of the Purchase Agreement that remain in effect prohibiting consummation of the Transaction. We can provide no assurance that all required approvals will be obtained on the anticipated schedule, or at all.



The waiting period with respect to the notifications filed under the HSR Act expires 30 calendar days after such filings, unless otherwise extended or terminated. The Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") or Department of Justice ("DOJ") may effectively extend the statutory waiting period by requesting additional information regarding the Transaction and its potential effects on competition. Also, at any time before or after completion of the Transaction, the FTC or the DOJ could act under the antitrust laws to prevent a substantial lessening of competition or the creation of a monopoly, including by seeking to enjoin completion of the Transaction or seeking divestiture of our or Alpha’s assets, businesses or product lines. 



Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



 Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers



The following table summarizes the number of shares of common stock we purchased from participants in our equity incentive plans as well as repurchases of common stock authorized by the Board of Directors. As provided by the Company’s equity incentive plans, (a) vested options outstanding may be exercised through surrender to the Company of option shares or vested options outstanding under the Company’s equity incentive plans to satisfy the applicable aggregate exercise price (and any withholding tax) required to be paid upon such exercise and (b) the withholding tax requirements related to the vesting and settlement of restricted stock units and market condition-based share units may be satisfied by the surrender of shares of the Company’s common stock.



Purchases of Equity Securities









Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures



Not applicable.



ITEM 6.EXHIBITS





SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



ENERSYS (Registrant) 





 Michael J. Schmidtlein



 Chief Financial Officer





