fls.txt
Furthermore, the inclusion of forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that future events, plans or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
The 2018 Share Repurchase Program expires August 31, 2019.
As of February 28, 2019, 13.9 million shares had been repurchased for $350.0 million, which utilized the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors.
During the six months ended February 28, 2019, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 46% of its net revenue and 78 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $6.1 million for the three months ended February 28, 2018, and $2.9 million and $16.4 million for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $410.5 million, $508.0 million and $463.3 million, respectively, as of February 28, 2019.
The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% Senior Notes, was approximately $304.6 million, as of February 28, 2019.
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under a foreign asset-backed securitization program, a North American asset-back securitization program and uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”).
Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 were not material.
The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
Effective October 1, 2018, the foreign asset-backed securitization program terms were amended and the program was extended to September 30, 2021.
In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution.
The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value.
Prior to the amendment, any portion of the purchase price for the receivables not paid in cash upon the sale occurring was recorded as a deferred purchase price receivable, which was paid from available cash as payments on the receivables were collected.


item2.txt
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets.
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
We derived a substantial majority, 88.2% and 90.6%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
During the three months ended February 28, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to lower materials purchases during the quarter and timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended August 31, 2018, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter and the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16—“Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Note 14 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
Net revenue increased during the three months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months ended February 28, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


