fls.txt
The Company disclaims any obligation to subsequently revise forward-looking statements to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date such statements are made.


item1.txt
If that callable debt security is subsequently called, the entity records a loss equal to the unamortized premium.
The Company owns a building adjacent to its corporate headquarters that is partially occupied with a tenant who has a lease agreement that will expire in 2022.
As of March 31, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested stock options was $75,985,000, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.14 years.
The Company's contingent consideration liabilities are reported at fair value based upon probability-adjusted present values of the consideration expected to be paid, using significant inputs that are not observable in the market, and are therefore classified as Level 3.
ASU 2016-13 applies to all reporting entities holding financial assets that are not accounted for at fair value through net income (debt securities).
All securities are denominated in U.S.
The Company’s incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments over a similar term, which is the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a 2.5% credit risk spread.
Certain leases may contain options to extend or terminate the lease at the Company's sole discretion.
These gains and losses are included in "Investment income" on the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The Company did not record an impairment charge related to these assets during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019.
The total operating lease cash payments for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019 was $1,401,000.
The Company has control of the asset if it has the right to direct the use of the asset and obtains substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the asset throughout the period of use.
As of March 31, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested stock options was $75,985,000, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.14 years.
The amendments in this ASU align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The lease liability equals the present value of the future cash payments discounted using the Company's incremental borrowing rate.
The total fair values of stock options vested for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 were $29,972,000 and $25,674,000, respectively.
Management is responsible for estimating the fair value of these financial assets and liabilities, and in doing so, considers valuations provided by a large, third-party pricing service.
As a result of the adoption of ASC 842 "Leases," Cognex Corporation (the "Company") has provided new disclosures related to leases in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


item2.txt
The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, constant-currency revenue increased by approximately 5% from the first quarter of 2018.
We generally refer to such amounts calculated on a constant-currency basis as excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes.
Foreign currency gains and losses result primarily from the revaluation and settlement of accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany balances that are reported in one currency and collected in another.
Foreign currency gains and losses result primarily from the revaluation and settlement of accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany balances that are reported in one currency and collected in another.
Sales to customers based in the Americas increased by 10% driven by strong sales in the logistics industry, partially offset by lower sales in the automotive industry.
Revenue for the first quarter of 2019 totaled $173,484,000, representing an increase of $3,917,000, or 2%, from the first quarter of 2018.
Excluding the impact of these discrete tax events, the Company’s effective tax rate was 15% of pre-tax income for both the first quarters of 2019 and 2018.


item4.txt
Effective on April 26, 2019, the Company filed Articles of Amendment to the Company’s Restated Articles of Organization with the Secretary of State of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts eliminating the Preferred Shares and returning them to authorized but undesignated shares of the Company’s preferred stock.


part2.txt
On December 5, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors allowed the Company’s Shareholder Rights Agreement and associated rights to expire in accordance with their terms without renewal.


