fls.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.


item1.txt
As permitted by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, these notes are condensed and do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
The lease liability is reduced by the cash payment less the interest each period.
As permitted by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, these notes are condensed and do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.
The amendments do not require an accounting change for securities held at a discount; the discount continues to be amortized to maturity.
Certain leases may contain options to extend or terminate the lease at the Company's sole discretion.
Estimated interest and penalties included in these amounts totaled $155,000 for the six-month period ended June 30, 2019.
The Company recorded gross realized gains and gross realized losses on the sale of debt securities totaling $394,000 and $12,000, respectively, during the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 and $308,000 and $61,000, respectively, during the three-month period ended July 1, 2018.
Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.
Certain leases contain leasehold improvement incentives, retirement obligations, escalating clauses, rent holidays, and variable payments tied to a consumer price index.
The discounted present value of the future lease cash payments resulted in a lease liability of $17,984,000 as of June 30, 2019.
As a practical expedient, the Company does not recognize a lease asset or lease liability for leases with a lease term of 12 months or less.
The total fair values of stock options vested for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018 were $887,000 and $887,000, respectively.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The total lease expense for leases with a term of twelve months or less for which the Company elected not to recognize a lease asset or lease liability was $64,000 and $233,000 for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
Lease contracts may include lease components and non-lease components, such as common area maintenance and utilities for property leases.
This ASU should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption, and, in the period of adoption, the entity is required to provide disclosures about the change in accounting principle.
There were no options to extend or terminate that were included in the determination of the lease term for the leases outstanding as of June 30, 2019.


item2.txt
The increase was due to higher yields on the Company's portfolio of debt securities, and to a lesser extent additional funds available for investment.
Sales to customers based in Europe decreased by 16% for the three-month period and 6% for the six-month period, with changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounting for approximately 6 percentage points of the decrease in both periods.
Other income (expense) includes fair value adjustments of contingent consideration liabilities arising from business acquisitions.
In addition to product revenue derived from the sale of machine vision products, the Company also generates revenue by providing maintenance and support, consulting, and training services to its customers; however, service revenue accounted for less than 10% of total revenue for all periods presented.
Delays and reductions in capital spending from a broad base of factory automation customers, including those in the automotive industry, are also expected to contribute to the decrease from the prior year, offset by expected growth in the logistics industry.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue remained consistent at 74% for each of the second quarter of 2019 and 2018.
Operating cash outflows included the payment of company bonuses that were earned and accrued in 2018.
Sales to customers based in Greater China decreased by 13% for the three-month period and 14% for the six-month period, with changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounting for approximately 6 percentage points of the decrease in both periods.
Delays and reductions in capital spending from a broad base of factory automation customers, including those in the automotive industry, are also expected to contribute to the decrease from the prior year, offset by expected growth in the logistics industry.


item4.txt



part2.txt
None.


