fls.txt
The Company disclaims any obligation to subsequently revise forward-looking statements to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date such statements are made.


item1.txt
The amendments in this Update are effective for all entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company determines the transaction price as the amount of consideration it expects to receive in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to the customer.
The amendments in this Update also require certain disclosures about stranded tax effects.
updates its estimate of variable consideration at the end of each reporting period to reflect changes in facts and circumstances.
On July 30, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.045 per share.
Amounts collected from customers for sales taxes are excluded from the transaction price.
The gains and losses on these derivatives are intended to be offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets and liabilities being hedged.
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standard Update (ASU) 2016-16, "Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory."
The Company recognizes revenue when it transfers the promised goods or services to the customer.
Participants were entitled to dividends on restricted stock awards, but only receive those amounts if the shares vest.
If the Company can objectively determine that control of a good or service has been transferred to the customer in accordance with the agreed-upon specifications in the contract, then customer acceptance is a formality.
In its evaluation, management considered the type of security, the credit rating of the security, the length of time the security has been in a loss position, the size of the loss position, the Company's intent and ability to hold the security to expected recovery of value, and other meaningful information.
As of July 1, 2018, the Company did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment of these investments.
These restricted shares became fully vested in 2018.
The Company includes estimated variable consideration in the transaction price only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved.
The dividend is payable August 31, 2018 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on August 17, 2018.
The amendments in this Update shorten the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium.
The Company recorded gross realized gains and gross realized losses on the sale of debt securities totaling $363,000 and $94,000, respectively, during the six-month period ended July 1, 2018 and $143,000 and $36,000, respectively, during the six-month period ended July 2, 2017.
The dividend is payable August 31, 2018 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on August 17, 2018.
The amendments in this Update also require certain disclosures about stranded tax effects.


item2.txt
declined to 74% of revenue in the second quarter of 2018 from 76% of revenue in the second quarter of 2017 due primarily to a higher percentage of revenue related to application-specific customer solutions.
The Company has not yet determined how the Tax Act will impact its financial statement assertion related to indefinite reinvestment in future years.
The Company’s Board of Directors declared and paid a cash dividend of $0.0450 per share in the first and second quarters of 2018, amounting to $15,524,000 for the six-month period ended July 1, 2018.
The Company believes that its existing cash and investment balances, together with cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to meet its operating, investing, and financing activities for the next twelve months.
We believe that our strong cash position has put us in a relatively good position with respect to our longer-term liquidity needs.
As of the date of this report, we expect the gross margin percentage to be relatively flat for the third quarter of 2018 as compared to the second quarter of 2018.
Constant-currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period.
In February, 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $150,000,000 of the Company's common stock.


item4.txt
 ITEM 6.


part2.txt
Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.


