fls.txt
Such risks and uncertainties include: (1) the loss of a large customer; (2) current and future conditions in the global economy, including the imposition of tariffs or export controls; (3) the reliance on revenue from the consumer electronics or automotive industries; (4) the inability to penetrate new markets; (5) the inability to achieve significant international revenue; (6) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the use of derivative instruments; (7) information security breaches or business system disruptions; (8) the inability to attract and retain skilled employees; (9) the failure to effectively manage our growth; (10) the reliance upon key suppliers to manufacture and deliver critical components for our products; (11) the failure to effectively manage product transitions or accurately forecast customer demand; (12) the inability to design and manufacture high-quality products; (13) the technological obsolescence of current products and the inability to develop new products; (14) the failure to properly manage the distribution of products and services; (15) the inability to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property; (16) our involvement in time-consuming and costly litigation; (17) the impact of competitive pressures; (18) the challenges in integrating and achieving expected results from acquired businesses, including the recent acquisition of Sualab; (19) potential impairment charges with respect to our investments or for acquired intangible assets or goodwill; and (20) exposure to additional tax liabilities.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
As a practical expedient, the Company has elected not to disclose the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations, as our contracts have an original expected duration of less than one year.
The weighted-average grant-date fair values of stock options granted during the nine-month periods ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018 were $18.58 and $21.70, respectively.
At inception of a contract, the Company determines whether that contract is or contains a lease.
Rental income was $76,000 and $77,000 for the three-month period ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
The total operating lease expense for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 29, 2019 was $1,749,000 and $4,976,000, respectively.
The discounted present value of the future lease cash payments resulted in a lease liability of $16,167,000 as of September 29, 2019.
The Company owns a building adjacent to its corporate headquarters that is partially occupied with a tenant who has a lease agreement that will expire in 2022.
The fair values of RSUs granted were determined based upon the market value of the Company's common stock at the time of grant.
This ASU should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption, and, in the period of adoption, the entity is required to provide disclosures about the change in accounting principle.
As of the date of this report, management is in the process of completing the implementation of this ASU, including finalizing the internal credit losses policy and the related processes, internal control, and disclosures.
The Company owns a building adjacent to its corporate headquarters that is partially occupied with a tenant who has a lease agreement that will expire in 2022.
As a practical expedient, the Company does not recognize a lease asset or lease liability for leases with a lease term of 12 months or less.
 (1) In addition to the vested options, the Company expects a portion of the unvested options to vest at some point in the future.
Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period.
In the determination of the lease term, the Company considers the existence of extension or termination options and the probability of those options being exercised.
to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates arising primarily from foreign-denominated receivables and payables.
Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period.
The Company determines whether a contract contains a lease by assessing whether there is an identified asset and whether the contract conveys the right to control the use of the identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.


item2.txt
The Company plans to migrate acquired intellectual property to certain subsidiaries in the fourth quarter of 2019, which is expected to result in a foreign tax payment of between $35 million to $37 million payable in early 2020.
Revenue for the third quarter of 2019 totaled $183,325,000, representing a decrease of 21% from the third quarter of 2018 driven by significantly lower revenue in the consumer electronics industry.
Results on a constant-currency basis are not in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Dollars on the company's China entity.
The increase was due to higher yields on the Company's portfolio of debt securities, and to a lesser extent additional funds available for investment.
On October 16, 2019, the Company acquired Sualab for total cash consideration of approximately $171 million upon closing and deferred payments of approximately $24 million that may become payable on the fourth anniversary date of the closing.
The Company plans to migrate acquired intellectual property to certain subsidiaries in the fourth quarter of 2019.
Management also expects its current effective tax rate excluding discrete items of 16% to increase slightly in future years as a result of this change.
In addition to product revenue derived from the sale of machine vision products, the Company also generates revenue by providing maintenance and support, consulting, and training services to its customers; however, service revenue accounted for less than 10% of total revenue for all periods presented.


item4.txt



part2.txt
 ITEM 6.


