fls.txt
These forward-looking statements, which include statements regarding business and market trends, future financial performance, customer order rates and timing of related revenue, expected areas of growth, emerging markets, future product mix, research and development activities, investments, and strategic plans, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.


item1.txt
The main difference between current U.S. GAAP and Topic 842 is the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for those leases classified as operating leases under current U.S. GAAP.
If revenue is recognized before immaterial promises have been completed, then the costs related to such immaterial promises are accrued at the time of sale.
Topic 842 distinguishes between finance leases and operating leases, which are substantially similar to the classification criteria for distinguishing between capital leases and operating leases under current U.S. GAAP.
The Company did not record an impairment charge related to these assets during the three-month period ended April 1, 2018.
The amendments do not require an accounting change for securities held at a discount; the discount continues to be amortized to maturity.
The total fair values of stock options vested for the three-month periods ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 were $25,674,000 and $17,987,000, respectively.
The expected volatility was based upon a combination of historical volatility of the Company’s common stock over the contractual term of the option and implied volatility for traded options of the Company’s stock.
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," using the full retrospective method to present all periods reported on a consistent basis.
As of April 1, 2018, the Company did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment of these investments.
The amendments in this Update also require certain disclosures about stranded tax effects.
As a practical expedient, the Company has elected not to disclose the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations, as our contracts have an original expected duration of less than one year.
The second are cash flow hedges which utilize foreign currency forward contracts with maturities of up to 18 months to hedge specific forecasted transactions of the Company's foreign subsidiaries with the goal of protecting the Company's budgeted revenues and expenses against foreign currency exchange rate changes compared to its budgeted rates.
The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation at contract inception based on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, or the price at which the Company would sell the good or service separately to similar customers in similar circumstances.
The Company’s reserve for income taxes, including gross interest and penalties, was $7,986,000 as of April 1, 2018, which included $6,958,000 classified as a non-current liability and $1,028,000 recorded as a reduction to non-current deferred tax assets.
This ASU applies to any entity that enters into a lease, although lessees will see the most significant changes.
The weighted-average grant-date fair values of stock options granted during the three-month periods ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 were $21.62 and $14.95, respectively.
Total stock repurchases for the three-month period ended April 1, 2018 amounted to $69,202,000.
This ASU applies to any entity that enters into a lease, although lessees will see the most significant changes.
Participants are entitled to dividends on restricted stock awards, but only receive those amounts if the shares vest.
If acceptance provisions are presumed to be substantive, then revenue is deferred until customer acceptance.


item2.txt
Total stock repurchases in the first quarter of 2018 amounted to $69,202,000.
Revenue for the first quarter of 2018 totaled $169,567,000, representing an increase of 22% from the first quarter of 2017 driven primarily by strong sales in the logistics and automotive industries.
In addition to product revenue derived from the sale of machine vision products, the Company also generates revenue by providing maintenance and support, consulting, and training services to its customers; however, service revenue accounted for less than 10% of total revenue for all periods presented.
The remaining constant-currency increase of 17% was driven by higher sales in the logistics and automotive industries, partially offset by lower sales in the consumer electronics industry.
The statutory tax rate is 12.5% in Ireland and 25% in China.
Operating cash inflows included the collection of a significant amount of accounts receivable from a material customer in the consumer electronics industry.
The statutory tax rate is 12.5% in Ireland and 25% in China.
We generally refer to such amounts calculated on a constant-currency basis as excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes.


item4.txt
Based on such evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.


