fls.txt
In addition, the Company, or the executive officers on the Company’s behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents the Company files with the SEC or in connection with oral statements made to the press, current and potential investors, or others.


item1.txt
Item 1.Financial Statements The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
1.Description of Business and Basis of Presentation Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company’s consolidated financial position as of November 30, 2017, the consolidated comprehensive income for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, and the consolidated cash flows for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2017-01 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows including debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance.
ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2017.
The Company intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019, and the provisions of ASU 2016-15 are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statement disclosures.
ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2018.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2016-02 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2020.
The Company has an implementation team tasked with identifying potential differences that will result from applying the new revenue recognition standard to the Company's contracts with its customers.
The implementation team reports the findings and progress of the project to management on a frequent basis and to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
The implementation team has completed its initial phase of contract reviews and continues to evaluate the results of those reviews with respect to potential changes from adopting the new standard on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Additionally, the implementation team is in the process of identifying appropriate changes to the Company's business processes, systems, and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard.
Based on the implementation team's current findings and the overall expected immaterial impact of adoption, the implementation team is currently evaluating which adoption method would provide the most meaningful information to the Company's stakeholders.


item2.txt
The purpose of this discussion and analysis is to enhance the understanding and evaluation of the results of operations, financial position, cash flows, indebtedness, and other key financial information of Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) and its subsidiaries as of November 30, 2017 and for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016.
Also, please refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 26, 2017 (“Form 10-K”).
Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”).
The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements.
Based on its cash on hand, availability under existing financing arrangements, and current projections of cash flow from operations, the Company believes that it will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months.
The Company's short-term needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding potential acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board of Directors (the “Board”).
During fiscal 2018, the Company currently expects to invest approximately two percent of net sales, of which $10.3 million had been invested as of November 30, 2017, in capital expenditures primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms.


part2.txt
Item 1a.Risk Factors At the Company's annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018, in Atlanta, Georgia, the stockholders considered and voted on the following proposals.
Additionally, the Board determined that the Company will hold future non-binding, advisory votes of stockholders to approve the compensation of the named executive officers every year, consistent with the results of the vote at the annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018.
This advisory vote will occur annually until the Board otherwise elects a different frequency for such non-binding, advisory votes or until another non-binding, advisory stockholder vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on executive compensation occurs.
On January 5, 2018, the Board reduced the size of the Board from 12 members to 11 members following the retirement of Gordon D. Harnett from the Board effective January 5, 2018.


