fls.txt
Forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the words “would,” “could,” “will,” “may,” “expect,” “believe,” “should,” “anticipate,” “if,” “future,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “potential,” “target,” “seek,” or “continue” and similar words and phrases, including the negatives of these terms, or other variations of these terms, that denote future events.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Power Integrations, Inc. consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017, included in its Form 10-K filed on February 14, 2018, with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
No material changes have been made to the Company's significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 14, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company did not transfer any investments between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy in the six months ended June 30, 2018, and the twelve months ended December 31, 2017.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2018, was approximately $6.1 million (comprising approximately $3.9 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $1.8 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
In the six months ended June 30, 2018, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $11.7 million (comprising approximately $8.2 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $2.7 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.8 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2017, was approximately $6.3 million (comprising approximately $3.7 million related to RSUs, $2.3 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
In the six months ended June 30, 2017, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $11.3 million (comprising approximately $7.2 million related to RSUs, $3.5 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.6 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance.
As the net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals are considered performance conditions, expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the service period based on an assessment of the achievement of the performance targets.
The fair value of these PSUs is determined using the fair value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the grant, reduced by the discounted present value of dividends expected to be declared before the awards vest.
In January 2018, it was determined that approximately 79,000 shares of the PSUs granted in 2017, vested in aggregate and were released to the Company’s employees and executives in the first quarter of 2018.
PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number.
Expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recorded throughout the year depending on the number of shares expected to vest based on progress toward the performance target.
In January 2018, it was determined that approximately 38,000 shares of the PRSUs granted in 2015, vested in aggregate and were released to the Company’s executives in the first quarter of 2018.
In each of the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, one customer, a distributor of the Company's products, accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues.


item2.txt
A large percentage of our products are ICs used in AC-DC power supplies, which convert the high-voltage AC from a wall outlet to the low-voltage DC required by most electronic devices.
Power supplies incorporating our products are used with all manner of electronic products including mobile phones, computing and networking equipment, appliances, electronic utility meters, power tools, industrial controls, and lighting applications that utilize light-emitting diodes (LEDs), and “smart-home,” or “internet of things” applications such as networked thermostats, power strips and other building-automation and security devices.
Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficiency of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families, which address applications up to about 500 watts) and our entry into the gate-driver markets through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012.
In 2016 we introduced the SCALE-iDriverTM family of gate-driver ICs, which enables us to address applications between approximately 10 kilowatts and 100 kilowatts, whereas previously our gate-driver products were primarily for applications above 100 kilowatts.
Our net revenues were $109.5 million and $107.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $212.6 million and $212.3 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The increase in net revenues for the three month period was due primarily to higher unit sales into the industrial end-market, driven mainly by growth in high-power gate-driver applications.
Net revenues for the six-month period were flat compared with the prior-year period as growth in the industrial, computer and consumer end-markets was offset by lower sales into the communications end-market for cellphone-charger and residential-networking applications.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.
We mitigate default risk by investing in safe and high-credit quality securities and by constantly positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository.


item4.txt
Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance as to the tested objectives.


part2.txt
In January 2018, our board of directors authorized the use of an additional $30.0 million for the repurchase of our common stock, which was announced on February 1, 2018.


