fls.txt



item1.txt
Additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches.
The introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period.
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
For example, in December 2015, we disclosed that we identified unauthorized code in ScreenOS that could allow a knowledgeable attacker to gain administrative access to NetScreen devices and to decrypt VPN connections.
Additionally, the EU and a number of other countries have adopted regulations requiring producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume certain responsibilities for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life.
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks.
The forward contract for the remaining $150.0 million is considered indexed to the Company's common stock and met all of the applicable criteria for equity classification.
Because of the complexities of the new provisions, the Company is continuing to evaluate how the provisions will be accounted for under U.S. GAAP.
In addition, the June 2016 approval by voters in the U.K. of a referendum to leave the EU and the U.K.’s formal initiation of the exit process in March 2017, commonly referred to as Brexit, has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets.
A customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process.
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
We have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements.
During the three months ended June 30, 2017, we concluded that there were sufficient indicators to require us to perform an interim goodwill impairment analysis on our Security reporting unit.
•covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, employees purchased approximately 1.3 million and 1.5 million shares of common stock through the ESPP at an average exercise price of $22.23 and $19.21 per share, respectively.


item2.txt
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 23.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate price of $600.0 million based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction.
Repurchases associated with tax withholdings were not material during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
This does not represent the final number of shares to be delivered under the ASR.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Investments in our securities involve significant risks.
In fiscal year 2015, our margins increased compared to fiscal year 2014, as a result of higher restructuring and other charges recorded in 2014 but not in 2015, in connection with the restructuring plan we initiated in the first quarter of 2014.
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose in our filing if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner.
If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer.
Certain of our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks.
In addition, there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate.
•covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.
Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved.
Similarly, the June 2016 approval by voters in the United Kingdom, or U.K., of a referendum to leave the EU could require us to make additional changes to the way we conduct our business and transmit data between the U.S., U.K., EU and the rest of the world.
Beginning in 2018, the Tax Act generally limits the annual deduction for net business interest expense to an amount equal to 30% of adjusted taxable income.
This change in regulatory treatment of networks might impact service provider and cloud provider business models and, as such, providers' needs for Internet telecommunications equipment and services.


