fls.txt



item1.txt
As of June 30, 2018, 24.2 million and 9.9 million shares were available for future issuance under the Company's 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2015 Plan") and the ESPP, respectively.
Large manufacturers also will have to disclose how they plan to monitor their sources to comply with the rules.
Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management.
Our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products.
As noted in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report, under the heading of “Legal Proceedings”, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, is conducting, and the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, was previously conducting, investigations into possible violations by the Company of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, in a number of countries.
However, hedge activities can be costly, and hedging cannot fully offset all risks, including long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the U.S. Dollar.
The initial shares received by the Company were retired, accounted for as a reduction to stockholders' equity in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, and treated as a repurchase of common stock for purposes of calculating earnings per share.
Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products.
Moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including the possibility of import tariffs or regional conflicts.
Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of Juniper Networks or an authorized committee thereof.
The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation (following its acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent), Arista, HPE, and Huawei.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, there were no material gross realized gains or losses from available-for-sale debt securities.
The Credit Agreement will terminate in June 2019, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid.
The balance primarily relates to matters involving U.S. and non-U.S. taxation of cross-border transactions and the utilization of losses.
In addition, there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate.


item2.txt
The following discussion is based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item I, of this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP.
Total other expense, net decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in interest income related to our fixed income investment portfolio, as a result of higher yields, partially offset by a decline in the total amount invested.
The completion of the ASR resulted in a total settlement of 29.3 million shares of our common stock at a volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Company’s Audit Committee, with the assistance of independent advisors, conducted a thorough internal review of possible violations of the FCPA, and the Company made improvements in its internal controls and carried out a number of disciplinary actions.
Consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms.
In addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
In addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur.
Certain countries’ encryption control regimes may significantly limit our ability to sell major lines of our products in those countries.
The Company’s Audit Committee, with the assistance of independent advisors, conducted a thorough internal review of possible violations of the FCPA, and the Company made improvements in its internal controls and carried out a number of disciplinary actions.
In addition, as a contractor and subcontractor to U.S. government departments and agencies, we are subject to Federal regulations pertaining to our IT systems.
The EU RoHS and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, in electronic equipment, including our products.
The majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors’ products, and some of which sell their own competing products.
Our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products.
We are also vulnerable to third parties who illegally distribute or sell counterfeit, stolen or unfit versions of our products, which has happened in the past and could happen in the future.


