fls.txt



item1.txt
The BEPS Action Plan includes fifteen Actions to address BEPS in a comprehensive manner and represents a significant change to the international corporate tax landscape.
These errors may arise from hardware or software we produce or procure from third parties.
See Note 10, Segments, for disaggregated revenue by product and service, customer vertical, and geographic region.
Revenue for maintenance and software post-contract support is recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the Company's short-term and long-term debt in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was $2,168.4 million and $2,252.9 million, respectively, based on observable market inputs (Level 2).
Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which includes failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed.
As of September 30, 2018, our goodwill was $3,094.3 million and intangible assets with indefinite lives was $49.0 million.
Revenue for maintenance and software post-contract support is recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term.
Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved.
Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we completed the sale of our Junos Pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of Siris Capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million, of which $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest-bearing promissory note issued to the Company.
The Company establishes a liability in connection with purchase commitments related to quantities in excess of its demand forecasts or obsolete materials charges for components purchased by the contract manufacturers based on the Company’s demand forecast or customer orders.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received an initial 23.3 million shares of the Company's common stock, based on the market value of the Company's common stock on the date of the transaction.
For example, the United States and Chinese governments each have imposed tariffs on certain products originating from the other country.


item2.txt
We are seeing strong customer adoption as our Enterprise customers migrate to multicloud solutions for end-to-end policy, control, and visibility.
The completion of the ASR resulted in a total repurchase of 29.3 million shares of our common stock.
We expect the effect of these reform measures to potentially impact long-standing tax principles, particularly in regards to transfer pricing.
Pursuant to the Tax Act, corporations are allowed to make an accounting policy election to either (i) account for GILTI as a component of income tax expense in the period in which the corporation is subject to the rules (the “period cost method”), or (ii) account for GILTI in the corporation's measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”).


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The EU RoHS and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, in electronic equipment, including our products.
In addition, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur.
In recent years, the United States has increased the level of scrutiny in granting H-1(B), L-1 and other business visas.
Our ability to sell into substantial government and SOE markets (whether or not the products we sell include encryption) is vulnerable to changes in applicable government procurement regulations, any associated local content requirements and changes in the government’s interpretation of such regulations.
Similar requirements also may be imposed in procurements by state owned entities (“SOE’s”).
As a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on IP infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
A material portion of our net revenues, across each customer vertical, depends on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners.
Such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors.
We also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks.
Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately.
Any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.


