fls.txt



item1.txt
Because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused.
Additionally, California recently enacted legislation, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which will become effective January 1, 2020.
Item 1A.
The information set forth under the “Legal Proceedings” section in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people with specialized industry expertise, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense.
We cannot guarantee that any of the measures we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology.
Failure to effectively manage the supply of components and products would adversely affect our business.
The Company believes it is probable that it could incur a loss and has established an estimated legal reserve of $12.0 million related to the ongoing SEC investigation; however, as discussions are continuing, there can be no assurance as to the timing or the terms of any final resolution of this matter.
In the fourth quarter of 2017, the DOJ notified the Company that the DOJ has closed its investigation related to these matters without taking any action against the Company.
Brexit, if implemented, will take some period of time to complete and could result in regulatory changes that impact our business.
Other regulations that may negatively impact our business include local content or local manufacturing requirements most commonly applicable for government, state-owned enterprise or regulated industry procurements.
Telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers.
reduce or suspend their spending on secure IP infrastructure.
These risks include, but are not limited to, disruption in services and the failure to protect the security and integrity of the Company's data under the terms of the agreement.
Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business.


item2.txt
Subsequent to March 31, 2019, we amended the 2019 Restructuring Plan to implement certain additional organizational changes resulting in a realignment of our workforce.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, there were no share repurchases under our Board approved 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, which authorized us to purchase an aggregate of up to $2.0 billion of our common stock.
The decline was partially offset by revenue growth in Enterprise routing.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products.
For instance, as a subcontractor to the U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, or DFARS, required that our IT systems comply with the security and privacy controls described in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-171, or NIST SP 800-171.
Consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters.
These risks include, but are not limited to, disruption in services and the failure to protect the security and integrity of the Company's data under the terms of the agreement.
Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, liabilities, litigation, and diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions, initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners, and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire.
If those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed.
The lapse of any exemption, further changes to this or other laws, or passage of similar laws in the EU or other jurisdictions, would require us to cease selling non-compliant products and to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations.
However, certain exemptions are scheduled to lapse.
Certain of our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks.
Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel.
Our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject relating to personal data, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use, or other processing, could result in enforcement actions and regulatory investigations against us, claims for damages by customers and other affected individuals, fines, damage to our reputation, and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance, and business.


