fls.txt



item1.txt
Additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches.
The Company believes it is probable that it could incur a loss and has established an estimated legal reserve of $12.0 million related to the ongoing SEC investigation; however, as discussions are continuing, there can be no assurance as to the timing or the terms of any final resolution of this matter.
An increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States in which we sell in U.S.
We have previously entered into OEM agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios.
These laws and regulations include, among others, the European Union, or EU, Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS.
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our employees, contractors, customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks.
Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business.
These types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, there were no material gross realized gains or losses from available-for-sale debt securities.
As the President never issued an order imposing the tariff, its exact scope was not known.
For example, on December 31, 2018, we entered into a Master Services Agreement and certain Statements of Work with IBM pursuant to which we will outsource significant portions of our IT and other administrative functions following a transition period.
The Company recognized an unrealized loss of $2.1 million and unrealized gain of $1.3 million in accumulated other comprehensive income for the effective portion of its derivative instruments for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively; and an unrealized loss of $15.9 million and $2.5 million for the comparable periods in fiscal 2018, respectively.
Pro forma results of operations for this acquisition have not been presented, as the financial impact to the Company's consolidated results of operations is not material.
IBM's only right to terminate the agreement is based on our failure to comply with certain terms applying to disputed payments.
Our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.
The Company previously disclosed that it has been the subject of investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") into possible violations by the Company of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.


item2.txt
For example, the United States imposed a tariff on networking products imported from China, which includes certain products that we import into and sell within the United States.
Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to higher amortization of intangible assets associated with the recent acquisition of Mist, lower revenue, partially offset by growth in our software revenue.
As of June 30, 2019, we were in compliance with all covenants in the Credit Agreement, and no amounts were outstanding.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.
Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as Ericsson, IBM, Dimension Data and NEC Corporation.
Alternatively, if a court were to find the exclusive forum provisions contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business.
In addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation and ability to compete in international markets, penalties, costs, seizure of assets (including source code) and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects.
As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, on April 29, 2019, we entered into the 2019 ASR to repurchase an aggregate of approximately $300.0 million of our outstanding common stock.
If these sales are made based on inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted.
In addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties.
Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners.
Increasingly, governments have begun using export and import controls not only to further national security objectives but also to protect local industries and restrict proliferation of locally developed “emerging or foundational technology."
On May 30, 2019, the U.S. President announced his intention to impose a tariff on imports from Mexico effective June 10, 2019.
Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of certain software products, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods.


