fls.txt



item1.txt
During the second quarter of 2019, the Company amended the 2019 Restructuring Plan and undertook certain further actions that resulted in additional severance, additional facility consolidation, and contract termination costs.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per share of common stock on January 29, 2019, April 25, 2019 and July 25, 2019, respectively, which was paid on March 22, 2019, June 24, 2019 and September 25, 2019, respectively, to stockholders of record on March 1, 2019, June 3, 2019 and September 4, 2019, respectively.
As the President never issued an order imposing the tariff, its exact scope was not known.
Currently, our products comply with the EU RoHS requirements.
In addition, any transition process may involve, among other things, increased volatility or illiquidity in markets for instruments that rely on LIBOR, reductions in the value of certain instruments or the effectiveness of related transactions such as hedges, increased borrowing costs, uncertainty under applicable documentation, or difficult and costly consent processes.
The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States.
The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocation that are subject to change relate to certain legal and income tax matters.
The U.S. government also might restrict or ban the use of certain Chinese-origin components and systems in next generation mobile communications networks (e.g.
For example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter.
During the first quarter of 2019, the Company initiated a restructuring plan (the "2019 Restructuring Plan") designed to realign its workforce with the Company's sales strategy, improve productivity, and enhance cost efficiencies.
For instance, the United States recently reached a new trilateral trade agreement with the Governments of Canada and Mexico to replace the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
If it occurs, this “Hard Brexit” scenario would mean, among other things, that U.K. Customs would have to clear a far greater daily volume of imports than it has ever had to before.
Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all covenants in the indentures governing the Notes.
Such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term.
that may be beyond our control or may seek to impose significant price increases.


item2.txt
The completion of the ASR resulted in a total repurchase of 11.6 million shares of our common stock.
Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to higher amortization of intangible assets associated with the recent acquisition of Mist, lower revenues and to a lesser extent, China tariffs.
The shares received by us were retired, accounted for as a reduction to stockholder’s equity in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, and treated as a repurchase of common stock for purposes of calculating earnings per share.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused.
In addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation and ability to compete in international markets, penalties, costs, seizure of assets (including source code) and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects.
As a result of any actual or perceived breach of network security that occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products and our overall reputation could be harmed.
Our success is dependent on our ability to maintain effective relationships with IBM and other third-party technology and service providers as well as the ability of IBM and any other third-party providers to perform as expected.
During the second quarter of 2019, we made an up-front payment of $300.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 8.6 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate price of $240.0 million, based on the market price of $27.94 per share of our common stock on the date of the transaction.
Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention.
These types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage.
Our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.
•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person.
We are unable to provide assurances that some or all of these risks will not occur.
In addition, the U.K.’s exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit, has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets.


