Except as required by law, Cabot Microelectronics undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements made by it to reflect new information, subsequent events or circumstances.
In the Electronic Materials segment, our CMP slurries revenue declined this quarter due primarily to softer market conditions, particularly in the memory, but also in the foundry, sectors.
In electronic chemicals, we saw stable demand this quarter.
With continued growth expected in U.S. oil production, primarily in the Permian basin as well as expansion internationally, we continue to experience strong demand for our drag-reducing agents, which enable pipeline operators to optimize the efficiency and throughput of oil transport.
Revenue for our second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $265.4 million, which benefited from the acquisition of KMG and represented an increase of 85.6% from the same quarter of fiscal 2018.
Results benefited from the acquisition of KMG, but were more than offset by acquisition-related expenses, a charge for the fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, and higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition.
For the same reasons, diluted earnings per share decreased from $1.14 in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to $0.92 in the current quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA was $85.5 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
This represents an increase of $41.9 million, or a 96.0% increase from the same quarter of fiscal 2018.
Adjusted EBITDA benefited from the addition of the KMG businesses and improved profitability in the Company’s heritage businesses.
Refer to the “Use of certain GAAP and Non-GAAP Financial Information” section below for the calculation of adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA margin, which represents adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue, was 32.2% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 30.5% for the same quarter of fiscal 2018.
Except for the discussion on revenue recognition in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report on Form 10-Q, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies during the first six months of fiscal 2019.
See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements.
Revenue was $265.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an 85.6%, or $122.4 million, increase from the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to the Acquisition.
Total cost of sales was $150.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 121.6%, or $82.6 million, from the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to the Acquisition.
Our gross margin was 43.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to 52.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Total research, development and technical expenses were $12.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented a decrease of 4.4%, or $0.6 million, from the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $50.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 104.7%, or $25.7 million, from the three months ended March 31, 2018.
These items were partially offset by $1.5 million lower staffing-related costs, including incentive compensation costs.
Interest expense was $13.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of $12.2 million from the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The increase resulted from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition.
Other expense was $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of $0.9 million, from the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The change was primarily due to the absence of the gain on sale of assets that had occurred in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The Company’s effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was 28.5%, compared to 19.6% in the same quarter last year.
 Net income was $27.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented a decrease of 8.7%, or $2.6 million, from the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Net income benefited from the addition of the KMG businesses, and was partially offset by acquisition and integration-related expenses, a charge for fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, and higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition.
Revenue was $487.2 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented a 72.2%, or $204.2 million increase from the six months ended March 31, 2018.
The increase in revenue was primarily due to the Acquisition.
Revenue from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses increased by $19.1 million, or 6.7%.
This increase was primarily driven by a higher value product mix, selected price increases and higher sales volume.
Total cost of sales was $273.0 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 103.9%, or $139.1 million, from the six months ended March 31, 2018.
The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to the Acquisition.
Our gross margin was 44.0% for the six months ended March 31, 2019, compared to 52.7% for the six months ended March 31, 2018.
Excluding the KMG businesses, gross margin increased by 2.7 percentage points, which was primarily due to a higher value product mix.
Total research, development and technical expenses were $26.8 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 5.1%, or $1.3 million, from the six months ended March 31, 2018.
The increase was primarily due to higher supplies and equipment costs used in research and development of $1.1 million.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $111.5 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 125.9%, or $62.1 million, from the six months ended March 31, 2018.
These items were partially offset by the absence of executive officer transition costs of $2.8 million that occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase resulted from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition.
Other expense was $2.4 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 550.1%, or $2.1 million, from the six months ended March 31, 2018.
The change was primarily due to the absence of the gain on sale of assets that occurred in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The decrease in our effective tax rate for the six months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the prior year is primarily attributable to the changes introduced by the Tax Act enacted in December 2017.
Other factors that impacted the Company’s effective tax rate for the six months ended March 31, 2019 were primarily related to unfavorable tax treatment of certain Acquisition-related costs, such as compensation deduction limitations, as well as non-deductibility of certain professional fees.
The increase was primarily due to the absence of the adverse impact of the Tax Act in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the addition of the KMG businesses post-Acquisition, and higher revenue and profitability within our heritage businesses.
These items were partially offset by acquisition and integration-related expenses, a charge for fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, and higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition.
 Segment data is presented for our two reportable segments for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
The segment data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-Q.
The $76.7 million increase in Electronic Materials revenue was driven by the addition of KMG’s electronic chemicals business in the quarter.
This decrease was partially offset by higher value product mix and price changes.
The $45.7 million increase in Performance Materials revenue was primarily driven by the addition of KMG’s performance materials business in the quarter.
Performance Materials’ adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin expanded from the prior year due to the addition of KMG’s heritage performance materials business.
The $134.0 million increase in Electronic Materials revenue was driven by the addition of KMG’s electronic chemicals business since the Acquisition.
The remaining increase was driven by strong organic demand for the Company’s heritage CMP slurries and polishing pads product lines, which increased 3% and 22%, respectively, primarily on higher sales volume.
Electronic Materials adjusted EBITDA increased from the prior year driven by the addition of KMG’s electronic chemicals results, as well as stronger organic profitability, driven by the leverage achieved on higher sales volume.
The $70.2 million increase in Performance Materials revenue was primarily driven by the addition of KMG’s performance materials business post-Acquisition.
Performance Materials’ adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin expanded from the prior year due to the addition of KMG’s heritage performance materials business.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted for certain items that affect comparability from period to period.
These adjustments include items related to our acquisition of KMG, such as expenses incurred to complete the acquisition, integration related expenses, and impact of fair value adjustments to inventory acquired from KMG.
The non-GAAP financial information provided is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, the Company’s financial results presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the investor's understanding about the Company's ongoing operations.
A reconciliation table of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is contained below.
Adjusted EBITDA for the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials segments is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, Segment Reporting.
This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance.
We generated $53.5 million in cash flows from operating activities in the first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to $67.1 million in cash from operating activities in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
The increase was driven by the use of $1,182 million for the Acquisition.
Capital expenditures in the first six months were $19.5 million, compared to $8.8 million in the prior year.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we received $1,044 million in debt proceeds, net of $21.4 million in debt issuance costs and original issue discount fees, which was used for the Acquisition.
In March 2019, we made a $45 million repayment on this debt, an increase of $38 million in debt repayment compared to prior year.
In addition, our dividend payments increased by $12 million versus the prior year, driven by the doubling of our quarterly dividend, as announced in March 2018, and the new shares issued in connection with the KMG acquisition.
The Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility are referred to as the “Credit Facilities.” The Company may generally prepay outstanding loans under the Credit Facilities at any time, without prepayment premium or penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to LIBOR rate loans.
Prepayments of the Term Loan Facility in connection with certain “repricing events” resulting in a lower yield occurring at any time during the first six months after the Acquisition Date must be accompanied by a 1.00% prepayment premium.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires that the Company maintain a maximum first lien secured net leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, of 4.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter if any revolving loans are outstanding, commencing with the first full fiscal quarter after the Acquisition Date.
The Credit Agreement also contains customary affirmative covenants and events of default.
We believe we are in compliance with these covenants.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we entered into a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreement to hedge the variability in our LIBOR-based interest payments on approximately 70% of our Team Loan balance.
During this quarter we made a prepayment of $45.0 million, and subsequent to the end of the quarter we made an additional $55.0 million prepayment.
See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report on Form 10-Q for additional information regarding the Credit Agreement.
As of March 31, 2019, $81.3 million remained available under our share repurchase program.
Share repurchases are made from time to time, depending on market and other conditions.
The timing, manner, price and amounts of repurchases are determined at the Company's discretion, and the share repurchase program may be suspended, terminated or modified at any time for any reason.
The repurchase program does not obligate the Company to acquire any specific number of shares.
Repurchases are subject to SEC regulations as well as certain conditions specified in the plan.
The declaration and payment of future dividends is subject to the discretion and determination of the Board of Directors and management, based on a variety of factors, and the program may be suspended, terminated or modified at any time for any reason.
As of March 31, 2019, we had $192.3 million of cash and cash equivalents, $132.3 million of which was held in foreign subsidiaries.
We believe that our current balance of cash, cash generated by our operations, cash repatriation to the United States, and available borrowing capacity under our Credit Facilities will be sufficient to fund our operations, expected capital expenditures, dividend payments, and share repurchases for at least the next twelve months.
At March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we did not have any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which might have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements.
The following summarizes our contractual obligations at March 31, 2019, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods.
We have been operating under a multi-year supply agreement with Cabot Corporation, which is not a related party and has not been one since 2002, for the purchase of fumed silica, the current term of which runs through December 31, 2019.
Purchase obligations include an aggregate amount of $11.1 million of contractual commitments related to our Cabot Corporation supply agreement for fumed silica.
Interest payments on long-term debt reflect interest rates in effect at December 31, 2018.
The interest payments reflect variable LIBOR-based rates currently in effect on $274 million of our outstanding debt, and fixed rates on $746 million of outstanding debt for which we have implemented an interest rate swap.
Commitment fees are based on our estimated consolidated leverage ratio in future periods.
See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report on Form 10-Q for additional information regarding our long-term debt.
The following Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Information is presented to illustrate the estimated effects of the company’s acquisition of KMG (the “Acquisition”), which was consummated on November 15, 2018 (the “Acquisition Date”), based on the historical results of operations of Cabot Microelectronics and KMG.
See Note 1, Background and Basis of Presentation, and Note 4, Business Combination, to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the Acquisition.
The historical Cabot Microelectronics Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 were derived from the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.
These pro forma financials include actual KMG’s pre-acquisition results with the months aligned to Cabot Microelectronics’ fiscal periods, and therefore, they do not align with consolidated financial statements included in KMG’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
• The exchange of 0.2000 share(s) of Cabot Microelectronics common stock for each share of KMG common stock; and
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Information was prepared using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires, among other things, that assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination be recognized at their fair values as of the completion of the acquisition.
We utilized estimated fair values at the Acquisition Date to allocate the total consideration exchanged to the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The allocation may be adjusted for up to one-year post closing.
In addition, the accompanying Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statements of Income do not reflect any additional anticipated synergies, operating efficiencies, cost savings, or any integration costs that may result from the Acquisition.
As a result, under SEC Regulation S-X Article 11, certain non-recurring expenses such as deal costs and compensation expenses related to severance or accelerated stock compensation and certain recurring historical KMG expenses related to depreciation, amortization, financing costs and costs of sales have been adjusted as if the Acquisition had occurred on October 1, 2017.
Certain non-cash costs related to the fair value step-up of inventory are eliminated from pro forma results in the periods presented.
In contrast, under the ASC 805 presentation in Note 4, Business Combination, to the consolidated financial statements, these expenses are required to be included in prior year pro forma results.
  1 Pro forma adjustments are related to non-recurring items directly attributable to the transaction as well as recurring differences related to depreciation, amortization or financing costs that were included as if the companies were combined as of October 1, 2017.
On November 15, 2018 the Acquisition was completed and actual combined company results are included.
  4 Certain pro forma adjustments related to depreciation, amortization, financing costs and costs of sales have been made for the October 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 period assuming that the Acquisition occurred on October 1, 2017.
Additionally, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments have been made for deal costs, compensation expenses related to severance or accelerated stock compensation, and the fair value step-up of inventory directly attributable throughout the six month period.
  2 Pro forma adjustments are related to non-recurring items directly attributable to the transaction as well as recurring differences related to depreciation, amortization or financing costs that were included as if the companies were combined as of October 1, 2017.
  2 Pro forma adjustments are related to non-recurring items directly attributable to the transaction as well as recurring differences related to depreciation, amortization or financing costs that were included as if the companies were combined as of October 1, 2017.
We calculated the income tax effect of the pro forma adjustments using a 21.6% and 23.4% tax rate, which represent the weighted average statutory tax rate for six-month period ended March 31, 2019 and year-ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Additionally, for the 2018 periods presented, we calculated the unaudited pro forma weighted average number of basic shares outstanding by adding the Cabot Microelectronics weighted average number of basic shares outstanding from the share amounts disclosed in the historical Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to the amount of shares issued in connection with the Acquisition, as if the shares were held for the entire period.
We calculated the unaudited pro forma weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding by adding the number of shares issued in the Acquisition to the amount disclosed in the historical Cabot Microelectronics Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
The basic and diluted EPS calculation takes pro forma net income divided by the applicable number of shares outstanding.
Removal of amortization of acquisition related intangibles, since management believes that these costs are not indicative of the company’s core operating performance.
Removes the difference between reported GAAP interest expense and Article 11 pro forma interest expense, which is prepared as if the acquisition occurred on October 1, 2017.
Adjustment for U.S. Tax Reform, which represents a significant non-recurring item affecting comparability among periods.
Reconciliations for these items are provided in the tables below.
In January 2016, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the amount available under our share repurchase program to $150.0 million.
As of March 31, 2019, $81.3 million remained outstanding under our share repurchase program.
We did not repurchase any shares under this program during the first two quarters of fiscal 2019.
To date, we have funded share purchases under our share repurchase program from our available cash balance, and anticipate we will continue to do so.
