The unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by Cabot Microelectronics pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP).
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics’ financial position as of June 30, 2019, cash flows for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, and results of operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2018 were derived from audited financial statements.
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cabot Microelectronics and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances between the companies have been eliminated as of June 30, 2019.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, impairment of long-lived assets, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
However, future events are subject to change and estimates and judgments routinely require adjustment.
Except for the discussion on revenue recognition below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
Upon adoption of ASC 606, we recognized a $933 decrease to the opening balance of retained earnings, net of tax, due to the cumulative impact of adopting the new revenue standard.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
The Company changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition for customer incentives that provide free products and tiered pricing.
For free products, the new revenue standard requires that a portion of the transaction price be allocated to the free product and deferred until the product has been delivered.
We previously accrued for undelivered free product as a charge to cost of sales.
In prior fiscal years, in accordance with ASC 605, we did not consider prospective tiered pricing to represent a material right.
We have determined that the effect of applying the new revenue standard during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 was immaterial to our financial statements compared to revenue guidance in effect before the adoption of the new revenue standard.
As a result, for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, we are not disclosing the quantitative amount by which each financial statement line item is affected by the application of the new revenue standard.
As part of the adoption of ASU 606, the Company elected to use certain allowed practical expedients.
For the Company’s contracts that have an original duration of one year or less as of the adoption date, the Company uses the practical expedient applicable to such contracts and does not consider the time value of money.
Further, because of the short duration of these contracts, the Company has not disclosed the transaction price for the future performance obligations as of the end of each reporting period for contracts having an expected duration of one year or less.
See Note 3 of this Report on Form 10-Q for disaggregated revenue, the reconciliation of contract balances and transaction price allocation to remaining performance obligations for contracts expected to remain effective beyond one year.
At contract inception, the Company assesses the goods and services promised in its contracts with customers and identifies a performance obligation for each material promise to the customer.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service, or a bundle of goods or services, to the customer, and is the unit of accounting under ASC 606.
A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
A majority of the Company’s contracts have a single performance obligation which represents, in most cases, the products, equipment or services being sold to the customer.
Some contracts include multiple performance obligations, including prospective tiered price discounts or delivery of free product that we have concluded represents a material right.
Contracts with prospective tiered price discounts require judgment in determining if that discount represents a material right.
However, the period of time between invoicing and when payment is due is typically not significant and has no significant financing components.
Customers pay in accordance with negotiated terms upon receipt of goods or completion of services.
For these contracts, the transaction price is determined upon establishment of the contract that contains the final terms of the sale, including the description, quantity, and price of goods or services purchased.
In certain instances, we receive consideration from a customer prior to transferring goods or services to the customer under the terms of a sales contract.
In such cases, we record deferred revenue until the performance obligation is satisfied, which represents a contract liability, and is included in the contract liabilities discussed in Note 3 of this Report on Form 10-Q.
The Company recognizes revenue related to product sales at a point in time following the transfer of control of such products to the customer, which generally occurs upon shipment, or delivery depending on the terms of the underlying contracts.
The Company considers control to have transferred upon shipment or delivery because the Company has a present right to payment at that time, the customer has legal title to the asset, the Company has transferred physical possession of the asset, and the customer has significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset.
Revenue is recognized on consignment sales when control transfers to the customer, generally at the point of customer usage of the product.
The Company also records revenue for services provided to the pipeline and oilfield energy industries.
Revenue is recorded at a point in time when the services are completed as this is when right to payment and customer acceptance occurs.
For sales contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation identified in the contract based on relative standalone selling prices or estimates of such prices.
Standalone selling price, once established, is then used to allocate total consideration proportionally to the various performance obligations within a contract.
When we invoice for products shipped under these contracts, we defer the revenue associated with these rights on the balance sheet as a contract liability.
Revenue is recognized when the customer exercises the option to purchase goods at a discount in the case of the prospective tiered pricing discounts or when we ship the free product.
The primary type of variable consideration present in the Company’s contracts are rebates and early payment discounts, both of which are immaterial.
Early payment discounts are offered on a limited basis and are not significant.
The Company also offers rebates based upon cumulative volume of purchases within a quarter and accrues for the rebate obligation within the quarter that the rebate is earned.
 For certain contracts within the Performance Materials segment, commissions are paid to sales agents based upon a percentage of end-customer invoice value.
Agents are paid the commissions after funds are received by the Company from its customers.
Under ASC 340, sales commissions are required to be capitalized and expensed over the associated contract period.
However, as a practical expedient, the Company does not capitalize commissions as the associated contracts are generally one year or less in duration.
For shipping and handling activities performed after a customer obtains control of the goods, the Company has elected to account for these costs as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the goods and included in cost of sales.
The provisions of ASU 2016-02 require a dual approach for lessee accounting under which a lessee would recognize a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability.
For finance leases, a lessee will recognize interest expense and amortization of the right-of-use asset, and for operating leases, the lessee will recognize a straight-line total lease expense.
We have finished reviewing the population of our lease contracts and are in the process of implementing a new third party lease software system.
The Company currently plans to elect the optional package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and therefore, does not expect the adoption of ASU 2016-02 to have a significant impact on the Consolidated Statements of Income.
We expect to adopt the new standard in our first quarter of fiscal 2020 applying the optional transition method upon adoption.
The provisions of this standard require financial assets measured at amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
An allowance account would be established to present the net carrying value at the amount expected to be collected.
ASU 2016-13 also provides that credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
The guidance was amended through various ASU's subsequent to ASU 2016-13, all of which will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2020, but early adoption is permitted as of October 1, 2019.
We are currently evaluating the impact of implementation of this standard on our financial statements.
2017-07 "Improving the Presentation of Net Period Pension Cost and Net Period Postretirement Benefit Cost" (Topic 715).
The provisions of ASU 2017-07 provided specific guidance on the presentation of the components of net benefit cost.
The impact of the retrospective adoption in fiscal year 2018 is not material.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
The provisions of ASU 2017-09 provide specific guidance about which changes to the term or conditions of a share-based payment require an entity to apply modification accounting.
We adopted ASU 2017-09 effective October 1, 2018 and will apply this new standard to our share-based compensation awards, to the extent modified.
2017-12 "Derivatives and Hedging" (Topic 815).
The provisions of this standard amend the hedge accounting model in ASC 815 to expand an entity's ability to hedge nonfinancial and financial risk components, reduce complexity in fair value hedges of interest rate risk, eliminate the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness, and generally require the entire change in the fair value of a hedging instrument to be presented in the same income statement line as the hedged item.
The guidance also eases certain documentation and assessment requirements and modifies the accounting for components excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
We applied the new guidance to the interest rate swap that we entered into during our second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Therefore, unrealized changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income.
We will perform subsequent assessments of hedge effectiveness qualitatively on a quarterly basis.
2018-02 "Income Statement – Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)".
ASU 2018-02 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2019, but early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating and quantifying the amount to be reclassified into retained earnings and expect to record the reclassification on October 1, 2019.
The Company disaggregates revenue by product area and segment as it best depicts the nature and amount of the Company’s revenue.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 that was included in the opening current contract liability balances in our Performance Materials segment was $697 and $4,857, respectively.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 that was included in our opening contract liability balances in our Electronic Materials segment was not material.
The table below discloses (1) the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) as of the end of the reporting period for contracts with an original duration of greater than one year and (2) when the Company expects to recognize this revenue.
On the Acquisition Date, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the outstanding stock of KMG, which was a publicly held company headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas.
KMG specialized in producing, processing, and distributing electronic chemicals for the semiconductor industry and performance materials for the pipeline operations and energy, and industrial wood preservation industries.
We acquired KMG to extend and strengthen our position as one of the leading suppliers of consumable materials to the semiconductor industry and to expand our portfolio with the addition of KMG’s performance materials businesses, which we believe enables us to become a leading global provider of performance products and services to the pipeline operations and energy industries.
The purchase consideration was $1,513,235, including consideration transferred of $1,536,452, less cash acquired of $23,217.
The consideration was comprised of cash consideration to KMG common shareholders and equity award holders, stock consideration to KMG common shareholders and equity award holders, and cash consideration in the form of the retirement of KMG’s preexisting debt obligations.
Under the terms of the definitive agreement to acquire KMG, each share of KMG common stock was converted into the right to receive $55.65 in cash and 0.2000 of a share of Cabot Microelectronics common stock.
In connection with the Acquisition, we entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”), which provided us with a seven-year, $1,065,000 term loan facility (the “Term Loan Facility”), which we drew on the Acquisition Date to fund the Acquisition along with cash on hand, and a five-year, $200,000 revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which has not been drawn.
In connection with the borrowing, we incurred $21,408 in debt issuance costs and original issue discount fees, $859 of which relates to the Revolving Credit Facility and is recorded as a prepaid asset, and the remaining $20,549 in debt issuance costs relates to the Term Loan Facility and is presented as a reduction of long-term debt.
See below for a summary of the different components that comprise the total consideration.
The following table summarizes the preliminary allocation of fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the Acquisition Date.
The Acquisition was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
Tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at fair value as of the Acquisition Date.
The Company has not finalized the fair value determinations of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and expects to finalize such as soon as practicable, but not later than one-year from the Acquisition Date.
The fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired were developed with the assistance of a third-party valuation firm.
The fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment is primarily valued at its “value-in-use.” The fair value of acquired identifiable intangible assets was determined using the “income approach” on an individual asset basis.
The key assumptions used in the calculation of the discounted cash flows include projected revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, discount rate and customer attrition.
The valuations and the underlying assumptions have been deemed reasonable by the Company’s management.
Customer relationships represent the estimated fair value of the underlying relationships and agreements with KMG’s customers and are being amortized on an accelerated basis in order for the expense to most accurately match the periods of highest cash flows attributable to the identified relationships.
Technology and know-how represent the estimated fair value of KMG’s technology, processes and knowledge regarding its product offerings, and are being amortized on a straight-line basis.
These intangible assets are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets and will be subject to impairment testing.
The excess of consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired was recorded as goodwill, and is not deductible for income tax purposes.
The goodwill is primarily attributable to anticipated revenue growth from the combined company product portfolio, expected synergies of the combined company, and the assembled workforce of KMG.
The preliminary allocation of goodwill to each of the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials segments as a result of the Acquisition was $261,733 and $344,888, respectively.
These items are included within Selling, general and administrative in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
In the same three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, we also recorded a charge of $42 and $14,869, respectively related to the fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, which is included in Cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Net sales of the acquired KMG business since the Acquisition Date through June 30, 2019 were $316,690.
KMG’s net income since the Acquisition Date was $4,782, which includes $21,889 of acquisition-related costs and a $14,869 charge for fair value write-up of inventory sold.
Further, additional amortization and depreciation expense associated with recording KMG’s net assets at fair value decreased KMG’s net income post-Acquisition.
The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information summarizes the combined results of operations for Cabot Microelectronics and KMG as if the Acquisition had occurred on October 1, 2017.
The historical financial information has been adjusted by applying the Company’s accounting policies and giving effect to the pro forma adjustments, which consist of (i) amortization expense associated with identified intangible assets; (ii) depreciation of fixed asset step-up (for pre-acquisition periods only); (iii) accretion of inventory step-up value; (iv) the elimination of interest expense on pre-acquisition KMG debt and replacement of interest expense related to the acquisition-related financing; (v) transaction-related costs; (vi) accelerated share-based compensation expense (pre-acquisition periods only); (vii) retention and severance expense incurred as a direct result of the Acquisition; and (viii) an adjustment to tax-effect the aforementioned unaudited pro forma adjustments using an estimated weighted-average effective income tax rate of each entity and the jurisdictions to which the above adjustments relate.
The pro forma consolidated results are not necessarily indicative of what the consolidated results actually would have been had the Acquisition been completed on October 1, 2017.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) established a three-level hierarchy for disclosure based on the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair value.
Level 1 inputs consist of valuations based on quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 inputs consist of valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an inactive market, or other observable inputs.
Level 3 inputs consist of valuations based on unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity.
The following table presents financial instruments, other than long-term debt, that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2019.
See Note 10 for a detailed discussion of our long-term debt.
We have classified the following assets and liabilities in accordance with the fair value hierarchy set forth in the applicable standards.
In instances where the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset fall into more than one level of the hierarchy, we have classified them based on the lowest-level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value.
Our cash and cash equivalents consist of various bank accounts used to support our operations and investments in institutional money-market funds that are traded in active markets.
We invest only in AAA-rated, prime institutional money market funds, comprised of high quality, short-term fixed income securities.
Our other long-term investments represent the fair value of investments under the Cabot Microelectronics Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (SERP), which is a nonqualified supplemental savings plan.
The fair value of the investments is determined through quoted market prices within actively traded markets.
Although the investments are allocated to individual participants and investment decisions are made solely by those participants, the SERP is a nonqualified plan.
Consequently, the Company owns the assets and the related offsetting liability for disbursement until a participant makes a qualifying withdrawal.
The long-term investment was adjusted to $1,411 in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 to reflect its fair value as of June 30, 2019.
Goodwill was $708,390 as of June 30, 2019, and $101,083 as of September 30, 2018.
The increase in goodwill was due to $606,621 in goodwill related to the Acquisition offset by $686 in foreign exchange fluctuations.
The amount of goodwill assigned to each of the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials segments was $358,108 and $350,282, respectively.
As discussed in Note 4 of this Report on Form 10-Q, we recorded $844,800 of intangible assets related to the Acquisition.
The allocation of the amount into the various categories of intangible assets, as well as useful lives we have established, are discussed in Note 4.
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, using a fair-value-based approach.
An entity has the option to assess the fair value of a reporting unit either using a qualitative analysis ("step zero") or a quantitative analysis ("step one").
Similarly, an entity has the option to use a step zero or a step one approach to determine the recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets.
In 2018, we chose to use a step one analysis for both goodwill impairment and for indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment, with the exception of our CMP slurries reporting unit, for which we chose to use a step zero analysis for fiscal 2018.
We completed our annual impairment test during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 and concluded that no impairment existed.
There were no indicators of potential impairment during the quarter ended June 30, 2019, so it was not necessary to perform an impairment review for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during the quarter.
There have been no impairment charges recorded on the goodwill for any of our reporting units.
On the Acquisition Date, we entered into the Credit Agreement by and among the Company, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, which provides for senior secured financing of up to $1,265.0 million, consisting of the Term Loan Facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1,065.0 million and the Revolving Credit Facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $200.0 million, including a letter of credit sub-facility of up to $50.0 million.
Proceeds of the loans borrowed under the Term Loan Facility on the Acquisition Date were used to fund, in part, the Acquisition and certain of KMG’s existing indebtedness, and to pay related fees and expenses.
The Credit Facilities are guaranteed by each of the Company’s wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries, including KMG and its subsidiaries, and are secured by substantially all assets of the Company and of each subsidiary guarantor, in each case subject to certain exceptions.
The applicable margin for borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility varies depending on the Company’s first lien secured net leverage ratio.
The Term Loan Facility matures on November 15, 2025, the seven-year anniversary of the Acquisition Date, and amortizes in equal quarterly installments of 0.25% of the initial principal amount, starting with the first full fiscal quarter after the Acquisition Date.
In addition, the Company is required to prepay outstanding loans under the Term Loan Facility, subject to certain exceptions, with up to 50% of the Company’s annual excess cash flow, as defined under the Credit Agreement, and 100% of the net cash proceeds of certain recovery events and non-ordinary course asset sales.
We made a prepayment of $55.0 million and a total prepayment of $100.0 million during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires that the Company maintain a maximum first lien secured net leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, of 4.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter if any revolving loans are outstanding, commencing with the first full fiscal quarter after the Acquisition Date.
We believe we are in compliance with these covenants.
The Credit Agreement contains certain events of default, including relating to a change of control.
If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the Credit Facilities will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the Credit Facilities.
As of June 30, 2019, $13,313 of the debt outstanding was classified as short-term, and $18,655 of debt issuance costs related to our Term Loan were presented as a reduction of long-term debt.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we entered into a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreement to hedge the variability in our LIBOR-based interest payments on approximately 70% of our Term Loan Facility balance.
See Note 11 in this Report on Form 10-Q for additional information.
We enter into certain derivative transactions to mitigate the volatility associated with these exposures.
We have policies in place that define acceptable instrument types we may enter into and we have established controls to limit our market risk exposure.
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
In addition, all derivatives, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, are required to be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value on a gross basis.
During the second quarter, we entered into a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreement to hedge the variability in LIBOR-based interest payments on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt.
As of June 30, 2019, the notional value of the swap was $746,000 and this value is scheduled to decrease bi-annually, and to expire on January 31, 2024.
We have designated this swap agreement as a cash flow hedge pursuant to ASC 815, "Derivatives and Hedging".
Based on certain quantitative and qualitative assessments, we have determined that the hedge is highly effective and qualifies for hedge accounting.
Realized gains and losses are recorded on the same financial statement line as the hedged item, which is Interest expense.
On a regular basis, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts in an effort to mitigate the risks associated with currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
These foreign exchange contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting; therefore, the gains and losses resulting from the impact of currency exchange rate movements on our forward foreign exchange contracts are recognized as Other income (expense), net in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income in the period in which the exchange rates change.
As of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the notional amounts of the forward contracts we held to purchase U.S. dollars in exchange for foreign currencies were $9,636 and $7,652, respectively, and the notional amounts of forward contracts we held to sell U.S. dollars in exchange for foreign currencies were $17,880 and $24,860, respectively.
In September 2017, we entered into forward contracts to sell 100 billion Korean won and buy U.S. dollars, which we subsequently terminated in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
We had designated these forward contracts as effective net investment hedges.
We recorded an unrealized loss of $15,536, net of tax, in Accumulated comprehensive income during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 for this interest rate swap.
As of June 30, 2019, during the next 12 months, we expect approximately $4,274 to be reclassed from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into Interest expense related to our interest rate swap based on projected rates of the LIBOR forward curve as of June 30, 2019.
One of these contingencies, related to Star Lake Canal, which we assumed in connection with the Acquisition, is discussed below.
The Company records legal costs associated with loss contingencies as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
 On May 31, 2019, a fire occurred at the warehouse of the facility of KMG’s subsidiary, KMG-Bernuth, in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, which processes pentachlorophenol (“penta”) for sale to customers in the United States and Canada.
The warehouse fire, which we believe originated from non-hazardous waste materials temporarily stored in the warehouse for recycling purposes, caused no injuries and was extinguished in less than an hour.
Company personnel investigated the incident, and KMG-Bernuth commenced cleanup with oversight from certain local, state and federal authorities.
The carrying value of the warehouse and the affected inventory are not material.
Applying the accounting guidance under ASC 410-30, Environmental Obligations and ASC 450, Contingencies, we determined that since we have environmental obligations as of the date of the fire, costs for the fire waste cleanup and disposal should be recognized to the extent they are probable and reasonably estimable.
We have applied these criteria and recorded an undiscounted amount of $4,200 loss contingency regarding disposal costs that can be reasonably estimated at this time.
As such, no insurance recoveries have been recognized as of June 30, 2019.
We also may face other governmental or third-party claims, or otherwise incur costs, relating to cleanup of, or for injuries resulting from, contamination at sites associated with this or other past and present operations.
We accrue for environmental liabilities when a determination can be made that they are probable and reasonably estimable.
These regulatory requirements relate to the use, generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of certain hazardous materials, substances and waste into the environment.
The Company, including its KMG entities, manage Environmental, Health and Safety (“EHS”) matters related to protection of the environment and human health, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the treatment, storage and disposal of wastes, and the emission of substances into the air or waterways, among other EHS concerns.
Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violators may be subject to fines, injunctions or both.
The Company devotes significant financial resources to compliance, including costs for ongoing compliance.
Certain licenses, permits and product registrations are required for the Company’s products and operations in the U.S., Mexico and other countries in which it does business.
The licenses, permits and product registrations are subject to revocation, modification and renewal by governmental authorities.
In the U.S. in particular, producers and distributors of penta, which is a product manufactured and sold by KMG-Bernuth as part of the wood treatment business, are subject to registration and notification requirements under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”) and comparable state law in order to sell this product in the U.S.
We are subject to contingencies, including litigation relating to EHS laws and regulations, commercial disputes and other matters.
The Company records legal costs associated with loss contingencies as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
Refer to Note 17 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, for additional information regarding commitments and contingencies.
The projected benefit obligations and accumulated benefit obligations under all such unfunded plans are updated annually during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year.
Benefit payments under all such unfunded plans to be paid over the next ten years are expected to be approximately $7,906.
For more information regarding these plans, refer to Note 17 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
Purchase obligations include take-or-pay arrangements with suppliers, and purchase orders and other obligations entered into in the normal course of business regarding the purchase of goods and services.
We have been operating under a fumed silica supply agreement with Cabot Corporation, our former parent company which is not a related party, the current term of which runs through December 2019.
As of June 30, 2019, purchase obligations include $8,859 of contractual commitments related to this agreement.
The before tax amount reclassified from AOCI to net income during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, related to cash flow hedges, were recorded as Interest expense on our Consolidated Statement of Income.
We record share-based compensation expense for all share-based awards, including stock option grants, and restricted stock, restricted stock unit and performance share unit ("PSU") awards, and employee stock purchase plan purchases.
We calculate share-based compensation expense using the straight-line approach based on awards ultimately expected to vest, which requires the use of an estimated forfeiture rate.
Our estimated forfeiture rate is primarily based on historical experience, but may be revised in future periods if actual forfeitures differ from the estimate.
We calculate the expected term of our stock options using historical stock option exercise data, and for stock option grants made prior to December 2017, we have added a slight premium to this expected term for employees who meet the definition of retirement-eligible pursuant to their stock option grants during the contractual term of the grant.
As of December 2017, the provisions of stock option grants and restricted stock unit awards stated that, except in certain circumstances including termination for cause, once an employee meets the retirement eligibility requirements, any remaining unvested share-based awards will continue to vest regardless of termination of service.
Consequently, the requisite service period for the award is satisfied upon retirement eligibility.
The expected dividend yield represents our annualized dividend in dollars divided by the stock price on the date of grant.
The PSUs that have been awarded may be subject to downward or upward adjustment depending on the total shareholder return achieved by the Company during the particular performance period related to the PSUs, relative to the total shareholder return of an established market index.
We use a third-party service provider to estimate the fair value of the PSUs at grant date by using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
This model simulates the stock price movements of the Company and Index constituents using certain assumptions, including the stock price of the Company and index constituents, the risk-free interest rate and stock price volatility.
Subsequent to the Acquisition, the performance metrics of the PSUs awarded in December 2017 were modified to reflect the performance results expected due to the Acquisition.
KMG awards granted subsequent to the entry into the definitive agreement for the Acquisition, but prior to the Acquisition Date, were converted to our restricted stock units (“Replacement Award”), with vesting in three equal installments on the first three anniversaries of the original award date.
If the recipient is terminated without cause or resigns with good reason during the 18 months following the Acquisition Date, the Replacement Award will vest as of such termination date in a number of shares equal to 150% of the Replacement Award.
The share-based compensation expense related to the Replacement Awards, including accelerated vesting, was $3,253 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and not material in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2019.
The expense was included in the table below.
For additional information regarding the estimation of fair value, refer to Note 12 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
The Company’s effective income tax rate was 52.1% and 36.9% for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to an effective income tax rate of 18.3% and 47.0% for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company recorded a discrete charge of $9,128 related to newly issued final regulations related to U.S. Tax Reform which impacted the Company’s reserves for uncertain tax positions.
Other factors that impacted the Company’s effective income tax rate for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 were primarily related to unfavorable tax treatment of certain KMG acquisition-related costs, such as compensation deduction limitations, as well as non-deductibility of certain professional fees.
In the quarter ended December 31, 2018, the Company completed its provisional estimates with regard to the Tax Act, and the Transition Tax and Withholding Tax obligations are now determined to be complete.
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, excluding the effects of unvested restricted stock awards that have a right to receive non-forfeitable dividends, which are considered participating securities as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC 260 “Earnings per Share”.
Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the amount of participating securities was no longer material and therefore, we have excluded such securities from our calculation of EPS in fiscal 2019.
Diluted EPS is calculated in a similar manner, but the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period is increased to include the weighted-average dilutive effect of “in-the-money” stock options and unvested restricted stock shares using the treasury stock method.
Approximately 0.1 million and 0.2 million shares for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and 0.1 million shares for both the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, attributable to outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
Electronic Materials includes products and solutions for the semiconductor industry.
We manufacture and sell CMP consumables, including CMP slurries and polishing pad products, and high-purity process chemicals used to etch and clean silicon wafers in the production of semiconductors, photovoltaics (solar cells) and flat panel displays.
Performance Materials includes pipeline performance products and services for energy industries, wood treatment products, and products and equipment used in the precision optics industry.
Since the two segments operate independently and serve different markets and customers, there are no sales between segments.
Revenue from external customers and segment adjusted EBITDA shown for Performance Materials for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 includes Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage QED business.
The adjustments to segment EBITDA for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 represent addbacks of KMG acquisition and integration related expenses, and a charge for the write-up of inventory acquired from KMG to fair value, for inventory sold in the period, and costs related to KMG-Bernuth warehouse fire.
There were no adjustments to segment EBITDA for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018.
Unallocated corporate expenses include expenses associated with executive leadership and public company costs, and the unallocated portions of corporate functions including finance, legal, human resources, information technology, and corporate development not directly attributable to a reportable segment.
The information set forth in Note 12 “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
We have identified our Performance Materials segment as another area of potential continued growth and the product offerings in our Performance Materials segment are similarly concentrated.
Since its inception, the semiconductor industry, which is the largest industry in which we operate, has experienced technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices.
Currently, our principal business is to supply electronic materials primarily to the semiconductor industry.
The semiconductor industry has been consolidating as the larger semiconductor manufacturers have generally grown faster than the smaller ones, through business gains, mergers and acquisitions, and strategic alliances.
In addition, our customer base in our pipeline-related businesses is also somewhat concentrated, with large entities predominant, and outside of the United States, these entities frequently are state-owned or sponsored and limited in number per country, as described more above.
In fiscal 2018, our five largest customers accounted for approximately an aggregate 57% of our revenue, with Samsung, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and SK Hynix Inc. accounting for approximately 18%, 12%, and 10%, respectively, of our revenue.
We depend on our supply chain to enable us to meet the demands of our customers.
Our supply chain includes the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, our production operations and the means by which we deliver our products to our customers.
Additionally, some of our full-time employees are represented by labor unions, workers councils or comparable organizations, particularly in Mexico and Europe.
As our current agreements expire, we cannot provide assurance that new agreements will be reached at the end of each period without union action, or that a new agreement will be reached on terms satisfactory to us.
We believe it would be difficult to promptly secure alternative sources of key raw materials in the event one of our suppliers becomes unable to supply us with sufficient quantities of raw materials that meet the quality and technical specifications required by us and our customers.
In particular, China continues to be a fast-developing market for the semiconductor industry, and an area of potential continued growth for us.
As business volume between China and the rest of the world continues to grow, there is risk that geopolitical, regulatory, trade and political matters could adversely affect business for companies like ours based on the complex relationships among China, the United States, and other countries in the Asia Pacific region, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.
In addition, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business, and, provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, all of which could adversely impact our business, including our results of operations.
In addition, we have operations and customers located in the United Kingdom.
In the absence of such an agreement, there would be no transitional provisions and a “hard” Brexit would occur.
Although it is unknown what the terms of such an agreement, assuming it is reached, will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the United Kingdom and European Union countries, a fluctuation in currency exchange rates and increased regulatory complexities.
•other matters relating to environmental protection and various health and safety matters.
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and other federal and state agencies in the United States, as well as comparable agencies in other countries where we have facilities or sell our products, have the authority to promulgate regulations that could have a material adverse impact on our operations.
These EHS laws and regulations may require permits for certain types of operations, require the installation of expensive pollution control equipment, place restrictions upon operations or impose substantial liability for pollution and other EHS concerns resulting from our operations.
We are currently involved in investigation and remediation activities at certain sites, such as at KMG-Bernuth's Tuscaloosa, Alabama facility as described in Part 1, Note 12 of this Report on Form 10-Q.
Federal, state and foreign governmental authorities may seek fines and penalties, as well as injunctive relief, for violation of EHS laws and regulations, and could, among other things, impose liability on us to cleanup or mitigate environmental, natural resources or other damages resulting from a release of pesticides, hazardous materials or other chemicals into the environment.
We maintain insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages.
We do not believe that insurance coverage for environmental damage that occurs over time is available at a reasonable cost.
Accordingly, we may be subject to an uninsured or under-insured loss in such cases; although unknown at present, the KMG-Bernuth warehouse fire may be such an instance.
Governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific testing and data production be provided on our products.
Under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”), EPA requires registrants to submit a wide range of scientific data to support U.S. registrations.
Because scientific analyses are constantly improving, we cannot determine with certainty whether or not new or additional tests may be required by regulatory authorities.
While good laboratory practice standards specify the minimum practices and procedures that must be followed in order to ensure the quality and integrity of data related to these tests submitted to the EPA, there can be no assurance that the EPA will not request certain tests or studies be repeated.
In addition, more stringent legislation or requirements may be imposed in the future.
Recent changes to the Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) could result in increased regulation and required testing of chemicals we manufacture and could increase the costs of compliance for our operations.
Although the U.S. has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, a number of federal laws related to “greenhouse gas” or “GHG” emissions have been considered by Congress.
Because of the lack of any comprehensive legislation program addressing GHGs, the EPA is using its existing regulatory authority to promulgate regulations requiring reduction in GHG emissions from various categories of sources, such as when a permit is required due to emissions of other pollutants.
In addition, various state, local and regional regulations and initiatives have been enacted or are being considered related to GHGs.
These allowances are tradable so as to enable companies that manage to reduce their GHG emissions to sell their excess allowances to companies that are not reaching their emissions objectives.
Failure to purchase sufficient allowances will require the purchase of allowances at a current market price.
The EPA, foreign and state regulators, local governments, private environmental advocacy organizations and a number of large industrial companies have proposed or adopted policies designed to decrease the use of a variety of chemicals, including penta and others included in certain of our products.
We cannot assure you that the EPA, foreign and state regulators or local governments will not restrict the uses of penta or certain of our other products or ban the use of one or more of these products.
Protection of intellectual property is particularly important in our industry because we develop complex technical formulas and processes for products that are proprietary in nature and differentiate our products from those of our competitors.
We utilize and rely upon a global workforce.
We compete worldwide with other industry participants for qualified personnel, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor industry.
Periodically, we engage in succession planning for our key employees, and our Board of Directors reviews succession planning for our executive officers, including our chief executive officer, on an annual basis.
New privacy security laws and regulations, including the United Kingdom's Data Protection Act 2018 and the European Union General Data Protection Regulation 2016 that became effective May 2018, among others, pose increasingly complex compliance challenges, which may increase compliance costs, and any failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations could result in significant penalties.
We may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements.
On July 27, 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (the authority that regulates LIBOR) announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021.
When LIBOR ceases to exist after 2021, any calculation of interest based upon the Alternate Base Rate (or any comparable or replacement formulation), may result in higher interest rates.
To the extent that these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, which could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
For instance, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for the division of our Board of Directors into three classes as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms.
We have adopted change in control arrangements covering our executive officers and other key employees.
These arrangements provide for a cash severance payment, continued medical benefits and other ancillary payments and benefits upon termination of service of a covered employee's employment following a change in control, which may make it more expensive to acquire our Company.
