fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Jabil Inc. (the “Company”) has made certain reclassification adjustments to conform prior periods’ Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to the current presentation.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock unit awards (“restricted stock units”) and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
As of February 28, 2019, 13.9 million shares had been repurchased for $350.0 million, which utilized the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors.
During the six months ended February 28, 2019, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 46% of its net revenue and 78 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Some of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $6.1 million for the three months ended February 28, 2018, and $2.9 million and $16.4 million for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
As of February 28, 2019, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide.
As of February 28, 2019, the Company has $2.2 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.
The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria).
The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under a foreign asset-backed securitization program, a North American asset-back securitization program and uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”).
Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 were not material.
2016-15 (“ASU 2016-15”) described in Note 14, New Accounting Guidance, resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable (i.e. beneficial interest) on asset-backed securitization transactions.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.


item2.txt
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the six months ended February 28, 2019, our largest customers include Amazon.com, Inc., Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
We derived a substantial majority, 88.2% and 90.6%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
EMS segment revenues increased 33% primarily due to (i) a 13% increase in revenues for customers within our cloud business, (ii) an 8% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business, (iii) an 8% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business and (iv) a 6% increase in revenues for customers within our print and retail business.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


