fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
(1) Represents a one-time cash-settled stock award that vested on November 30, 2017.
On October 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee approved the modification of vesting criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2015.
As a result of the modification, 0.8 million awards vested during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, which resulted in approximately $24.9 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized for the three months ended November 30, 2017.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 51% of its net revenue and 74 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Almost all of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
Total segment assets are defined as accounts receivable, inventories, net customer-related property, plant and equipment, intangible assets net of accumulated amortization and goodwill.
All other non-segment assets are reviewed on a global basis by management.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
As of November 30, 2017, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide.
(1)  The notes are carried at the principal amount of each note, less any unamortized discount and unamortized debt issuance costs.
Additionally, the Company’s foreign subsidiaries had various additional credit facilities that finance their future growth and any corresponding working capital needs.
As of November 30, 2017, the Company has $2.2 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.
The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria).


item2.txt
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue, for the three months ended November 30, 2017, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Ingenico S.A., LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., SolarEdge Technologies, Inc., Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
We derived a substantial majority, 92.3%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months ended November 30, 2017.
As we continue to assess the impact to our operations, we may incur additional costs in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
We also expect the majority of these costs will ultimately be offset by insurance coverage.
Management regularly reviews financial and non-financial performance indicators to assess the Company’s operating results.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 13% due to a 12% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and a 1% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare and packaging businesses.
EMS segment revenues increased 6% primarily due to a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our digital home business, a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our industrial and energy business, a 1% increase in revenues from customers in our automotive and transportation business and a 1% increase spread across various industries within the EMS segment.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
Accordingly, we do not differentiate or separately report revenue increases generated by acquisitions as opposed to existing business.


item3.txt



item4.txt
10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.


part2.txt
Item 1.


