fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
The Company has made certain reclassification adjustments to conform prior periods’ Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to the current presentation.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
(1)  Represents a one-time cash-settled stock award that vested on November 30, 2017.
On October 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee approved the modification of vesting criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2015.
During the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 50% of its net revenue and 77 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Almost all of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
Total segment assets are defined as accounts receivable, inventories, net, customer-related property, plant and equipment, intangible assets net of accumulated amortization and goodwill.
All other non-segment assets are reviewed on a global basis by management.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which the Company would transact with third parties.
As of May 31, 2018, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide.
Total foreign net revenue represented 91.2% and 91.8% of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively, compared to 90.6% and 91.3% of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, respectively.
(1)  The notes are carried at the principal amount of each note, less any unamortized discount and unamortized debt issuance costs.
Additionally, the Company’s foreign subsidiaries had various additional credit facilities that finance their future growth and any corresponding working capital needs.


item2.txt
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the nine months ended May 31, 2018, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, SolarEdge Technologies, Inc., Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
We derived a substantial majority, 91.2% and 91.8%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively.
As we continue to assess the impact to our operations, we may incur additional costs in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018.
We also expect the majority of these costs will ultimately be offset by insurance coverage.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 36% due to (i) a 29% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand, (ii) a 4% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare business and (iii) a 3% increase in revenues due to a new customer and from existing customers in our consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies business.
EMS segment revenues increased 12% primarily due to (i) a 3% increase in revenues from a new customer and from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (ii) a 3% increase in revenues from existing customers in our capital equipment business, (iii) a 2% increase in revenues from existing customers in our digital home business, (iv) a 2% increase in revenues from existing customers within our networking and telecommunications business and (v) a 2% increase in revenues spread across various industries within the EMS segment.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 27% due to (i) a 25% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and (ii) a 2% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare business.
EMS segment revenues increased 8% primarily due to (i) a 3% increase in revenues from customers within our capital equipment business, (ii) a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our digital home business, (iii) a 2% increase in revenues from a new customer and existing customers within our industrial and energy business and (iv) a 1% increase in revenues from customers in our automotive and transportation business.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Certain instruments with respect to long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries are not filed herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K since the total amount of securities authorized under each such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.


part2.txt
Item 1A.


