fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 48% of its net revenue and 75 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Some of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $2.9 million and $10.3 million, for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
As of November 30, 2018, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide.
As of November 30, 2018, the Company has $2.3 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.
The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria).
The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under a foreign asset-backed securitization program, a North American asset-back securitization program and nine uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”).
Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017 were not material.
The adoption of ASU 2016-15 described in Note 14, New Accounting Guidance, resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable on asset-backed securitization transactions.
In addition, the beneficial interest of $162.2 million and $747.3 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, obtained in exchange for securitized receivables are reported as non-cash investing activities.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution.


item2.txt
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the three months ended November 30, 2018, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
We derived a substantial majority, 92.7% of net revenue from our international operations for the three months ended November 30, 2018.
In connection with the adoption of ASU 2014-09, days in inventory are calculated based on inventory and contract asset balances for the three months ended November 30, 2018.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
In addition, the added cost structures associated with our acquisitions have historically been relatively insignificant when compared to our overall cost structure.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted the new revenue standard under ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, using the modified retrospective method of adoption.


part2.txt
For further information on our forward-looking statements see Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


