fls.txt
These forward-looking statements represent the Company's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events.


item1.txt



item2.txt
There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by the Company, ranging from divisions of the largest electronic companies, to many small companies.
The Company's sales do not represent a significant share of the industry's market for any class of its products.
However, the concentration of our business in the rail industry, and in equipment for military applications and industrial applications, and our customer concentrations expose us to on-going associated risks.
As part of our strategy, we adjust our pricing in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs.
Successful conversion of engineering program backlog into sales is largely dependent on the execution and completion of our engineering design efforts.
We continue to experience technical and schedule delays with our major development programs.
New orders received in the first three months of fiscal year 2020 were approximately $7.0 million as compared to $6.9 million of new orders received in the first three months of fiscal 2019.
It is presently anticipated that a minimum of $29.2 million of orders comprising the September 30, 2019 backlog will be filled during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2020.
The minimum of $29.2 million does not include any shipments, which may be made against orders subsequently received during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2020.
A significant portion of the Company’s business is the production of military and industrial electronic equipment for use by the U.S. and foreign governments and certain industrial customers.
Net sales to three significant customers represented 56.7% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2019.
Net sales to two significant customers represented 62.5% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2018.
This high concentration level with these customers presents significant risk.
We account for a contract after it has been approved by all parties to the arrangement, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of consideration is probable.
We assess each contract at its inception to determine whether it should be combined with other contracts.
When making this determination, we consider factors such as whether two or more contracts were negotiated and executed at or near the same time, or were negotiated with an overall profit objective.
We evaluate the products or services promised in each contract at inception to determine whether the contract should be accounted for as having one or more performance obligations.
Transaction prices on our contracts subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) are typically based on estimated costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
We recognize revenue using the output method based on the appraisal of results achieved and milestones reached or units delivered based on contractual shipment terms, typically shipping point.
Balances for slow-moving and obsolete inventory are reviewed on a regular basis by analyzing estimated demand, inventory on hand, sales levels, market conditions, and other information and reduce inventory balances based on this analysis.
Provision for losses on contracts is made when the existence of such losses becomes probable and estimable.
The provision for losses on contracts is included in other accrued expenses on the Company’s balance sheet.
The costs attributed to units delivered under contracts are based on the estimated average cost of all units expected to be produced.
Certain contracts are expected to extend beyond twelve months.


item3.txt
The Company is a smaller reporting company as defined under Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 12b-2.


item4.txt
Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits 31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.2  Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


part2.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information 31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.2  Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
32.2  Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


