 Item 4. Controls and Procedures  



 The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, pursuant to Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of the end of the period covered by this report. These controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on their evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.   



 Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   



 There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the Company’s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Beginning January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all of its related subsequent amendments. Although the new revenue recognition standard did not have a material impact on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company implemented changes to our processes related to revenue recognition and the related control activities, including the implementation of certain controls over financial reporting necessary for the required disclosures, as well as the implementation of new policies and any necessary changes to existing related policies. Refer to Notes 2 and 3 of the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the adoption of this new standard.  





 Table of Contents  



 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures  



 Not Applicable.  



 Item 5. Other Information  



 None.  



 Item 6. Exhibits  

















































 Table of Contents  











 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURE  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  





