 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which relate to future, not past, events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements, which address the Company’s expected business and financial performance and financial condition, among other matters, may contain words such as: “anticipate,” “could,” “continue,” “expect,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “ongoing,” “project,” “seek,” “predict,” “target,” “will,” “intend,” “plan,” “optimistic,” “potential,” “guidance,” “may,” “should,” or “would” and other words and terms of similar meaning.   

 Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about expected earnings, revenues, growth, liquidity or other financial matters. Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements, including those with regards to results of operations, liquidity or the Company’s effective tax rate and the related impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”), are based upon reasonable assumptions, the expectations may not be attained or there may be material deviation. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, the following: the Company’s dependence on sales to the communications industry, which markets are dominated by large manufacturers and operators who regularly exert significant pressure on suppliers such as the Company; the Company’s dependence on sales to the military market, including the impact of reductions or changes in the defense budgets of U.S. and foreign governments; the Company’s ability to compete successfully on the basis of technology innovation, product quality, price, customer service and delivery time; the Company’s ability to continue to conceive, design, source and market new products, as well as market acceptance of the Company’s existing and future product lines, for continued revenue growth; the Company’s ability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, including as a result of significant deterioration of general economic or capital market conditions, or as a result of a downgrade in the Company’s credit rating; changes in exchange rates of the various currencies in which the Company conducts business, including possible currency devaluations; changes in interest rates which could impact existing or future issuances of debt; changes in tax laws, regulations and guidance, including related interpretations, in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, such as the Tax Act; political, economic, military and other risks in countries outside of the United States, including political, economic, financial or other instability, intergovernmental conflicts or actions, strikes or natural disasters; the impact of general economic conditions, geopolitical conditions and U.S. trade policies, legislation, treaties and tariffs, including those affecting China, on the Company’s business operations; difficulties and unanticipated expenses in connection with purchasing and integrating newly acquired businesses as part of the Company’s growth strategy, including the potential for the impairment of goodwill; the Company’s ability to obtain a consistent supply of materials, at stable pricing levels, used in the Company’s manufacturing processes, including aluminum, steel, copper, titanium, metal alloys, gold, silver, certain rare earth metals and plastic resins; litigation or environmental matters including changes to laws and regulations that the 

Company may be subject to; and cybersecurity threats or incidents that could arise. Such forward-looking statements may also be impacted by, among other things, clarifications to and additional guidance under the Tax Act. More specifically, on December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted and it significantly revised U.S. corporate income tax law by, among other things, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% and implementing a modified territorial tax system that includes a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The provisional income tax charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 incorporated assumptions made based on the Company’s current interpretation of the Tax Act and information then available. The Company continues to obtain, prepare and fully analyze all of the necessary information in order to complete its accounting of the Tax Act, which may require adjustments in the fourth quarter of 2018 related to this charge.  

 A further description of these uncertainties and other risks can be found in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and the Company’s other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These or other uncertainties may cause the Company’s actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in any forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.  

