Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results to differ materially from those implied by the forward-looking statements. Words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “may,” “can,” “will,” “would” and similar expressions identify such forward-looking statements. 





Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted, include, but are not limited to: 



•our ability to complete the merger with Cavium, Inc. on a timely basis, or at all;



•our ability to realize anticipated synergies in connection with the Cavium acquisition;



•our dependence on a small number of customers;



•severe financial hardship or bankruptcy of one or more of our major customers;



•the effects of any potential future acquisitions, strategic investments, divestitures, mergers or joint ventures; 



•risks associated with acquisition and consolidation activity in the semiconductor industry;



our ability and the ability of our customers to successfully compete in the markets in which we serve;



•our dependence upon the hard disk drive market, which is highly cyclical and intensely competitive;



•our ability and our customers’ ability to develop new and enhanced products and the adoption of those products in the market;



•decreases in our gross margin and results of operations in the future due to a number of factors;



•our reliance on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products;



•the risks associated with manufacturing and selling a majority of our products and our customers’ products outside of the United States;



•the effects of transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies;



•our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for existing or new products and services;



•our ability to limit costs related to defective products;



•our ability to recruit and retain experience executive management as well as highly skilled engineering and sales and marketing personnel; 



•our ability to mitigate risks related to our information technology systems;



•our ability to protect our intellectual property;



•our ability to estimate customer demand and future sales accurately;



•our reliance on third-party distributors and manufacturers' representatives to sell our products;



•the impact of international conflict and continued economic volatility in either domestic or foreign markets;



•the impact and costs associated with changes in international financial and regulatory conditions; 



•the impact of any changes in our application of the United Stated federal income tax laws and the loss of any beneficial treatment that we currently enjoy; 



•our maintenance of an effective system of internal controls; and 



•the outcome of pending or future litigation and legal and regulatory proceedings.



Additional factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth in the following discussion, as well as the risks discussed in Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.



Overview



We are a fabless semiconductor provider of high-performance, application-specific standard products. Our core strength is developing complex System-on-a-Chip (“SoC”) devices, leveraging our technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, and embedded and standalone integrated circuits. We also develop integrated hardware platforms along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution. Our broad product portfolio includes devices for storage, networking and connectivity.



Unless noted otherwise, our discussion under Part I, Item 2, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, refers to our continuing operations.



In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, our net revenue increased year over year by 6% from $572.7 million net revenue in the first quarter fiscal 2018 compared with $604.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The increase was primarily due to a 4% increase in our storage product sales and 11% increase in our networking and connectivity product sales. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 10% in relation to the three months ended April 29, 2017. 





Pending Business Combination. On November 19, 2017, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”), pursuant to which one of our subsidiaries will merge with and into Cavium, with Cavium surviving and becoming our wholly-owned indirect subsidiary (the “Merger”). Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. The Merger is primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions.



Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, we will issue 2.1757 common shares and pay $40.00 per share in cash, without interest, for each share of Cavium common stock. The merger consideration will be financed by a mix of cash, new debt financing and issuance of our common stock. 





Capital Return Program. Our financial position is strong and we remain committed to delivering shareholder value through our dividend program. We returned $29.8 million to stockholders in the three months ended May 5, 2018 in the form of cash dividend payments. 



Cash and Short Term Investments. Our total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $1.9 billion at May 5, 2018, which was slightly higher than our balance at our fiscal year ended February 3, 2018. 









We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of our major customers and distributors and believe the distributors’ sales to diverse end customers and geographies further serve to mitigate our exposure to credit risk.



Most of our sales are made to customers located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, and all of our products are manufactured outside the United States. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 94% of our net revenue in the three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. Because many manufacturers and manufacturing subcontractors of our customers are located in Asia, we expect that most of our net revenue will continue to be represented by sales to our customers in that region. For risks related to our global operations, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption "We face additional risks due to the extent of our global operations since a majority of our products, and those of our customers, are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. The occurrence of any or a combination of the additional risks described below would significantly and negatively impact our business and results of operations."





Historically, a relatively large portion of our sales have been made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term agreements. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. In addition, the development process for our products is long, which may cause us to experience a delay between the time we incur expenses and the time revenue is generated from these expenditures. We anticipate that the rate of new orders may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. For risks related to our sales cycles, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption "We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would results in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships." 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition that was updated as a result of adopting the new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers, there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from the information provided in the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018. See Note 3. Revenue - "New revenue recognition policy including significant judgments and estimates" for additional information.



Results of Operations







Three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017 



Net Revenue





 At the beginning of fiscal year 2019, we adopted the new revenue recognition standard using the modified retrospective method. Refer to “Note 3 - Revenue” for further information. 





Our net revenue for the three months ended May 5, 2018 increased by $31.9 million compared to net revenue for the three months ended April 29, 2017. This was primarily due to increased sales of our networking and connectivity products by 11% and higher sales of our storage products by 4% related to higher sales of SSD products. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which were down 10% compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017. 



In the three months ended May 5, 2018, unit shipments were 9% higher and average selling prices decreased 4% compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017. 



Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit







Research and Development





Research and development expenses decreased by $11.4 million in the three months ended May 5, 2018 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease of $4.5 million in nonrecurring engineering service fees, a decrease of $2.9 million in technology license amortization expense and $2.3 million in lower personnel costs due to headcount reduction. 



Selling, general and administrative





Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $17.2 million in the three months ended May 5, 2018 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $15.3 million in merger-related costs. Refer to “Note 1- Basis of Presentation” for discussion of the pending merger transaction.





Restructuring Related Charges





We recognized $1.6 million of total restructuring related charges in the three months ended May 5, 2018 as the Company continues to execute previously announced restructuring actions. 



Interest and Other Income, Net





Interest and other income, net, increased by $4.0 million in the three months ended May 5, 2018 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017. The increase is primarily due to a $2.6 million increase in interest income and a $1.5 million increase associated with foreign currency gain related to the revaluation of foreign currency denominated tax liabilities.



Provision (benefit) for Income Taxes





Our income tax provision for the three months ended May 5, 2018 was $3.8 million compared to an income tax provision of $5.2 million for the three months ended April 29, 2017. Our income tax provision for the three months ended May 5, 2018 differs from the same period in the prior year due to a reduction of tax expense on income from continuing operations, including discrete items in the quarter, versus the recognition of a discrete item related to changes in prior tax positions, and an additional accrual related to restructurings in the prior period. The effective tax rate for the three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017 differs from the statutory federal rate of 21% primarily due to foreign earnings that are taxed at a substantially lower tax rate. 



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("2017 Tax Act") was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The 2017 Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering the statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, eliminating certain deductions, imposing a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, introducing new tax regimes, and changing how foreign earnings are subject to U.S. tax. The 2017 Tax Act also enhanced and extended through 2026 the option to claim accelerated depreciation deductions on qualified property. We have not completed our determination of the accounting implications of the 2017 Tax Act on our tax accruals. However, we reasonably estimated the effects of the 2017 Tax Act and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of February 3, 2018. There were no additional adjustments made to these amounts in the quarter ended May 5, 2018. As we continue our analysis of the 2017 Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made.





Our provision for income taxes may be affected by changes in the geographic mix of earnings with different applicable tax rates, changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the results of income tax audits, the expiration of statutes of limitation, the implementation of tax planning strategies, tax rulings, court decisions, settlements with tax authorities and changes in tax laws. Additionally, please see the information in Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” under the caption “Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results.”



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Our principal source of liquidity as of May 5, 2018 consisted of approximately $1.9 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $1.0 billion was held by foreign subsidiaries (outside Bermuda). Approximately $550 million of this amount held by foreign subsidiaries is related to subsidiaries whose earnings are undistributed and have been indefinitely reinvested outside of Bermuda. These funds are primarily held in China, Israel and the United States. We have plans to use such amounts to fund various activities outside of Bermuda, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures for expansion, funding of future acquisitions or other financing activities. The amount of undistributed earnings of these subsidiaries for which no deferred tax liability has been provided is $430 million. If such funds were needed by the parent company in Bermuda or if the amounts were otherwise no longer considered indefinitely reinvested, we would incur a tax expense of approximately $160 million. 



We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements and any declared dividends, repurchase of our common stock and commitments for at least the next twelve months. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, costs of securing access to adequate manufacturing capacity, the timing and extent of research and development projects and increases in operating expenses, which are all subject to uncertainty. In addition, we have been named as defendants in several litigation actions and an unfavorable outcome in any current litigation matter could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. For a discussion of litigation related risks, see Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," including the risk detailed under the caption "We have been named as a party to several legal proceedings and may be named in additional ones in the future, including litigation involving our patents and other intellectual property, which could subject us to liability, require us to indemnify our customers, require us to obtain or renew licenses, require us to stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products."



To the extent that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and cash generated by operations are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing. We may also acquire additional businesses, purchase assets or enter into other strategic arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek debt or equity financing. Additional equity financing or convertible debt financing may be dilutive to our current shareholders. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common shares.



Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common shares and our planned repurchases of common stock will be subject to, among other things, the best interests of the Company and our shareholders, our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements, financial condition, developments in ongoing litigation, statutory requirements under Bermuda law, market conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments and repurchases of common stock may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts.



Cash Flows from Operating Activities







Net cash flow used in operations for the three months ended April 29, 2017 was $134.2 million. We had $106.6 million of net income, adjusted for $38.2 million of non-cash items, which was primarily driven by depreciation and amortization of $20.7 million, share-based compensation expense of $24.0 million, the amortization and write-off of acquired intangible assets of $1.1 million, and gain on the sale of discontinued operations of $8.2 million. The cash outflow from working capital of $10.6 million for the three months ended April 29, 2017 was primarily driven by increases in accounts receivable and inventory, as well as a decrease in accrued liabilities when adjusted for the impacts of investing activities, offset by an increase in accounts payable. The increase in accounts receivable was driven by less favorable sales linearity and a small increase in aged receivables. Inventories primarily associated with HDD inventory increased in preparation for the next quarter's demand. The decrease in accrued liabilities when adjusted for the impact of unsettled investment purchases was driven by a reduction of accruals for restructuring expenses and rebates. 



Cash Flows from Investing Activities



Net cash flow provided by investing activities was $216.7 million for the three months ended May 5, 2018 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $17.3 million for the three months ended April 29, 2017. For the three months ended May 5, 2018, net cash provided by investing activities was primarily driven by net proceeds for sales and maturities of available-for sale securities and time deposits of $274.1 million, offset by purchases of available-for-sale securities and time deposits of $38.5 million and purchases of property and equipment of $13.6 million. 



For the three months ended April 29, 2017, net cash used in investing activities of $17.3 million was primarily driven by purchase of available-for-sale securities of $198.4 million, offset by sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities of $161.0 million and net proceeds of $23.0 million from the sale of our Broadband business. 



Cash Flows from Financing Activities



For the three months ended May 5, 2018, net cash used in financing activities of $66.7 million was primarily attributable to $29.8 million for payment of our quarterly dividends, $23.9 million minimum tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for net share settlements, and $20.5 million payments on technology license obligations. These outflows were partially offset by proceeds of $11.1 million from employee stock plans. 



For the three months ended April 29, 2017, net cash used in financing activities of $205.0 million was primarily attributable to $166.3 million for the repurchases of our common stock, $30.0 million for payment of our quarterly dividends, and $21.8 million minimum tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for net share settlements.



Contractual Obligations



We presented our contractual obligations at February 3, 2018 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the three months ended May 5, 2018.



Indemnification Obligations



See “Note 8 – Commitments and Contingencies” in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.





Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



There were no sales of unregistered securities during the three months ended May 5, 2018.



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



During the three months ended May 5, 2018, we suspended our share repurchase program in anticipation of the funding of our acquisition of Cavium. Therefore, there were no share repurchases during the three months ended May 5, 2018. Although share repurchases are temporarily suspended, we have $358.0 million of repurchase authority remaining under our current share repurchase program. 





Item 6. Exhibits











SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





