PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings.



Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock. Other than the risk factor set forth below, there have been no material changes in our risk factors since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018.



We operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance.



We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. We compete on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support and security. If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed.



We have a large portfolio of products and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to their products and services compared to the resources allocated to our competing products and services. 



Companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or may become our competitors in other areas. In addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. If we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.



We face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. In addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. Our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures.



Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers.



Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is a negative reception to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects.



Even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. Financial performance could also decline due to increased competition from other types of products. For example, the refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of our LaserJet toner and InkJet cartridges compete with our Printing Supplies business. Customers are increasingly using online and omnichannel resellers and distributors to purchase our products. These resellers and distributors often sell our products alongside competing products, including low-cost alternatives, or they may highlight the availability of low-cost alternatives. We expect this competition will continue, and it may negatively impact our financial performance, particularly if large commercial customers purchase competing products instead of HP products. 





Table of Contents  



If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer.



We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our net revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. 



Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or reduced assortments of our products. Moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. Many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. Net revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors’ financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds or operations weaken.



Our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. We must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. Our forecasts may not accurately predict demand, and distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. Sales of our products by channel partners to unauthorized resellers could also make our forecasting more difficult and impact pricing in the market. If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.



Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities



There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities





On June 19, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors authorized $4.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock. This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions. HP intends to use repurchases from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically. All share repurchases settled in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 were open market transactions. As of January 31, 2019, HP had approximately $3.2 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.



Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.



None.



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.





Table of Contents  



Not applicable.



Item 5. Other Information.



On March 1, 2019, HP amended its credit facility to remove the limitation on entry into sale and leaseback transactions, effective as of February 1, 2019. The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the amendment to the credit facility, which is filed as Exhibit 10(k)(k) hereto.



Disclosure Under Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended



Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, requires issuers to disclose certain types of dealings by the issuer or its affiliates relating to Iran or with certain individuals or entities that are subject to sanctions under U.S. law. 



HP acquired the Apogee group, a U.K. based office equipment dealer, on November 1, 2018. During the first quarter of 2019, HP discovered that its newly acquired subsidiary processed two service calls during November 2018, shortly after the acquisition, for toner replacement on behalf of Bank Saderat plc, with which it had a legacy contract. Bank Saderat plc is subject to U.S. sanctions pursuant to Executive Order 13224. The combined total value of the transactions was £85.52 ($112.92). We are unable to accurately calculate the net profit attributable to these transactions. Following HP’s discovery of these transactions and at HP’s direction, Apogee terminated the contract with Bank Saderat plc. HP has disclosed these transactions to the relevant authorities. 



Item 6. Exhibits.



The Exhibit Index beginning on page 58 of this report sets forth a list of exhibits.





Table of Contents 



SIGNATURE



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.









Table of Contents 



HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



EXHIBIT INDEX









Table of Contents 







Table of Contents 







Table of Contents 







Table of Contents 







Table of Contents 











‡ Filed herewith.



† Furnished herewith.



The registrant agrees to furnish to the Commission supplementally upon request a copy of (1) any instrument with respect to long-term debt not filed herewith as to which the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and (2) any omitted schedules to any material plan of acquisition, disposition or reorganization set forth above.



