fls.txt



item1.txt
As of March 29, 2019, the amount of existing net losses related to cash flow hedges recorded in AOCI was not material and the majority is expected to be reclassified to earnings over the next twelve months.
Other direct incremental costs to obtain contracts that have an expected benefit of greater than one year are amortized over the period of expected cash flows from the related contracts, and the amortization expense is recorded as a reduction to revenue.
The Company uses qualitative factors to determine whether goodwill is more likely than not impaired and whether a quantitative test for impairment is considered necessary.
Product recalls can be expensive to implement.
We maintain limited insurance coverage and, in some cases, no coverage at all, for natural disasters and environmental damages, as these types of insurance are sometimes not available or available only at a prohibitive cost.
This includes litigation relating to patent and other IP rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation.
We rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information.
Further, our products contain sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that may contain security problems, security vulnerabilities, or defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could interfere with the intended operation of our products.
The cost basis of the Company’s investments classified as available-for-sale securities, individually and in the aggregate, approximated its fair value as of March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018.
Our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple retail market channels.
Our ratings reflect the opinions of the ratings agencies of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations.
Further, for many of our OEMs utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead receive a periodic forecast of requirements, which may prove to be inaccurate.
Demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this Item 1A as our “products”, depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers (“PCs”) and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems.
The fair value of the Company using a market capitalization approach based on the Company’s share price would include a control premium based on recent transactions that have occurred in the technology industry.
We have agreed with certain customers and strategic partners, including TMC, to undertake certain commitments to promote information security, and we may be liable to TMC or such other parties if we fail to meet our cyber security commitments.
In addition, third-party components or applications that we incorporate or use in our products may contain defects in design or manufacturing that could unexpectedly result in epidemic failures, security vulnerabilities or performance issues and subject us to liability.


item2.txt
For the nine months ended March 29, 2019, we repurchased 0.8 million shares for a total cost of $61 million under the previous authorization and 7.6 million shares for a total cost of $502 million under the new authorization.
You should read this information in conjunction with the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and Part II, Item 8, contained in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018.
The windfall tax benefits resulting from the adoption of ASU 2016-09 were not material for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Manufacturing yield issues may not be identified during the development or production process or solved until an actual product is manufactured and tested, further increasing our costs.
If global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that our investments may experience an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results.
Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs at the date hereof and should not be relied upon.
Taxes due over a period of time as a result of the 2017 Act could be accelerated upon certain triggering events, including failure to pay such taxes when due.
The costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, data privacy, anti-corruption and tax regulations, customers’ standards of corporate citizenship, and industry and coalition standards, such as those established by the Responsible Business Alliance (“RBA”), could cause an increase in our operating costs.
Also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our IP to the same extent as do U.S. laws.
Changes in tax laws could increase our worldwide tax rate and materially affect our financial position and results of operations.
Many companies, including some of our competitors, have also developed or are attempting to develop alternative non-volatile technologies, including non-NAND technologies such as magnetoresistive random-access memory (MRAM), resistive random-access memory (ReRAM) and phase change memory (PCM), and NAND-based vertical or stacked 3D memories based on charge trap, floating gate and other cell architectures.
There can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to maintain existing insurance coverage or that premiums will not increase substantially.
If we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in these countries.


