fls.txt



item1.txt
Breaches of our infrastructure, systems or products could also cause our customers and other affected third parties to suffer loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, IP, or sensitive or personal information, and could harm our relationships with customers and other third parties.
In addition, we may be subject to disputes, claims or other disagreements on the timing, amount or collection of royalties or license payments under our license agreements.
Results for reporting periods beginning with fiscal year 2019 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period information presented on the financial statements or elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is reported under the Company’s historic accounting policies under Topic 605 in effect for that period and is not adjusted to reflect the retrospective effect of the adoption of Topic 606.
The Company believes that its tax positions are properly supported and will vigorously contest the position taken by the IRS.
Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as ODMs, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our OEM customers.
These arrangements had no remaining performance obligations but were previously recognized under Topic 605 when they were reported to the Company by its licensees, which was generally one quarter in arrears from the licensees’ sales of the licensed products.
We maintain limited insurance coverage and, in some cases, no coverage at all, for natural disasters and environmental damages, as these types of insurance are sometimes not available or available only at a prohibitive cost.
For the three months ended December 28, 2018, the Company did not make any stock repurchases.
We attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts.
Therefore, the Company’s stock repurchases under all stock repurchase authorizations in effect for the six months ended December 28, 2018 totaled $563 million.
As the Company had previously accounted for the tax as a period cost in its income tax provision for the three months ended September 28, 2018, there was no change in the Company’s accounting as a result of this election.
If there are further decreases in the Company’s stock price for a sustained period or other unfavorable factors, the Company may be required to perform a goodwill impairment assessment, which may result in a recognition of goodwill impairment that could be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The 2017 Act, enacted on December 22, 2017, includes a broad range of tax reform proposals affecting businesses, including a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign earnings.
The ’988 patent, entitled “Magnetic Material Structures, Devices and Methods,” allegedly relates to a magnetic material structure for hard disk drive devices.
Our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers.
Sales of computer systems, mobile devices, storage subsystems, gaming consoles and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal and cyclical, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality and cyclicality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers’ demand for our products.


item2.txt
Flash Ventures has historically operated near 100% of its manufacturing capacity.
See also “Debt” below for information regarding the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and term loans (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”).
For the six months ended December 28, 2018, these discrete effects consist of $178 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax and $144 million related to the decision to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We believe the popularity of our brands makes them a target of counterfeiting or imitation, with third parties attempting to pass off counterfeit products as our products.
There are some revolutionary technologies that, if implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, could put us at a competitive disadvantage, including shingled magnetic recording, energy-assisted magnetic recording, patterned magnetic media and advanced signal processing.
We evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time.
•changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our co-venturers.
In addition, we may be unsuccessful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing products using future technologies.
Operating losses, third party downgrades of our credit rating or instability in the worldwide financial markets could impact our ability to effectively manage our foreign currency exchange rate risk.
Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings diluting and potentially reducing the value of our common stock.
We believe the popularity of our brands makes them a target of counterfeiting or imitation, with third parties attempting to pass off counterfeit products as our products.
Our agreements with our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk.
Any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or the repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.


