fls.txt



item1.txt
A majority of our flash memory is currently supplied by Flash Ventures and, to a much lesser extent, by third-party silicon suppliers.
•changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our co-venturers.
We may enter into agreements with customers, suppliers or partners that could limit our ability to monetize our IP or could result in us being required to provide IP indemnification to our customers, suppliers or partners.
We are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the U.S. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of third-party data including data that relates to or identifies an individual person.
In March 2017, the German Federal Court of Justice rendered a judgment affirming ZPÜ’s claim concerning the disclosure of WD Germany’s sales data regarding HDDs sold between January 2008 and December 2010.
Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”), or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products.
In addition, as a result of adverse labor rates or availability, we may be required to increase investments in automation, which may cause our capital expenditures to increase.
Our ratings reflect the opinions of the ratings agencies of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations.
We also may not effectively transition our design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers’ product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the products we manufacture.
On November 29, 2017, the Company entered into an amendment to the credit agreement entered into on April 29, 2016 (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”), to increase the size of its existing $1.0 billion revolving credit facility by $500 million to $1.5 billion.
Further, we face potential gross margin pressures resulting from our ASPs declining more rapidly than our cost of goods sold.
The long-term portion of the warranty accrual classified in Other liabilities was $110 million and $125 million as of December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
In addition, changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
If we lose our existing key management, staff or skilled employees, or are unable to hire and integrate new key management, staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key management or staff, our operating results would likely be harmed.
The Company aggregates its Flash Ventures’ notes receivable into one class of financing receivables due to the similar ownership interest and common structure in each Flash Venture entity.


item2.txt
For the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded a provisional amount for the mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability of $1.66 billion, which is payable over an 8-year period as further discussed below under “Short and Long-term Liquidity-Contractual Obligations and Commitments.” The provisional amount included in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Operations may change when we finalize the calculation of our post-1986 foreign earnings and profits that were previously deferred from U.S. income taxes and the amount of foreign earnings held in cash or other specified assets.
Gross profit was negatively impacted by amortization expense on acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation, charges related to the implementation of cost-saving initiatives and other charges, which aggregated $572 million, or 5.4%, of revenue, for the six months ended December 29, 2017, and $523 million, or 5.4%, of revenue, for the six months ended December 30, 2016.
In December 2017, we entered into a Confidential Settlement and Mutual Release Agreement (the “Toshiba Settlement Agreement”) with Toshiba and TMC pursuant to which the parties agreed to withdraw and seek dismissal of the litigation and arbitration proceedings related to the transfer of Toshiba’s interests in Flash Ventures and related matters.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside of storage products.
Although we intend to enter into agreements with TMC in due course to participate in the new Iwate facility, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so.
We may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly.
In addition, the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, higher than expected costs, ongoing diversion of management attention, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors, partners and employees.
•provisional estimates related to tax reform.
Any delays or cost increases in developing or sourcing preamps, controllers or firmware, or incompatibility or quality issues relating to the controllers or firmware in our products, could harm our financial results as well as business relationships with our customers.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
Further, we face potential gross margin pressures resulting from our ASPs declining more rapidly than our cost of goods sold.
In connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry and coalition environmental initiatives, such as those established by the EICC, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics.
Higher areal densities require existing recording head and magnetic media technology to be improved or new technologies developed to accommodate more data on a single disk.
On January 29, 2018, we announced the Refinancing Transactions, which remain subject to market and other conditions.


