fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company assesses financing receivable credit quality through financial and operational reviews of the borrower and creditworthiness, including credit rating agency ratings, of significant investors of the borrower, where material or known.
Any decisions to reduce or discontinue paying cash dividends to our shareholders or to reduce or discontinue repurchases of shares of our common stock pursuant to our previously announced stock repurchase program could cause the market price for our common stock to decline.
Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as of September 28, 2018 was $112 million.
Rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence.
These estimates and assumptions have been applied using methodologies that are consistent throughout the periods presented.
In addition, the mandatory deemed repatriation tax is based on a provisional amount of foreign earnings held in cash and other specified assets, which are taxed at 15.5% and 8%, respectively, and is payable over an 8-year period.
However, the Company is still analyzing certain aspects of the 2017 Act and refining the calculations, which could potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts.
Our possession and use of third-party data, including personal data and employee data in conducting our business subjects us to legal and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees or other parties with which we have commercial relations of a data security breach and to respond to regulatory inquiries and to enforcement proceedings.
In March 2017, the German Federal Court of Justice rendered a judgment affirming ZPÜ’s claim concerning the disclosure of WD Germany’s sales data regarding HDDs sold between January 2008 and December 2010.
The Company’s Board of Directors previously authorized $5.00 billion for the repurchase of the Company’s common stock.
See Note 5, Fair Value Measurements and Investments, for additional disclosures related to the fair value of the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts.
In addition, we use logistics partners to manage our just-in-time hubs, distribution centers and freight from suppliers to our factories and from our factories to our customers throughout the world.
Acquisitions and investments may also result in the issuance of equity securities that may be dilutive to our shareholders and the issuance of additional indebtedness that would put additional pressure on liquidity.
Company management has made estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of certain assets and liabilities in conformity with U.S. GAAP.
If the Japanese yen appreciates against the U.S. dollar, our cost of purchasing flash-based memory wafers and the cost to us of future capital funding of Flash Ventures would increase, which could negatively impact our operating results.


item2.txt
Flash Ventures sells to and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions a portion of its tools and has entered into equipment lease agreements of which we guarantee half or all of the outstanding obligations under each lease agreement.
Our cash equivalents are primarily invested in money market funds that invest in U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government agency securities as well as bank certificates of deposit.
Additionally, we do not have an interest in, or relationships with, any special-purpose entities.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The loss of our key executive management, staff and skilled employees, the inability to hire and integrate new employees or decisions to realign our business could negatively impact our business prospects.
In addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features.
We are dependent on our ventures with TMC to develop and manufacture flash-based memory products for our flash-based memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results are dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock.
We generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air, ocean or land freight.
We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting, and actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions.
The variety and volume of products we manufacture are based in part on these forecasts.
A significant portion of our sales is also made through retailers.
To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components, which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs.
Refinancing our indebtedness may also require us to expense previous debt issuance costs or to incur new debt issuance costs.


