fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company’s maximum reasonably estimable loss exposure (excluding lost profits) as a result of its involvement with Flash Ventures, based upon the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate at March 30, 2018, is presented below.
Manufacturing yield issues may not be identified during the development or production process or solved until an actual product is manufactured and tested, further increasing our costs.
The issues in dispute relate primarily to transfer pricing with the Company’s foreign subsidiaries and intercompany payable balances.
Our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple channels.
In connection with a settlement agreement with Toshiba in December 2017, the Company entered into a facility agreement (“Y6 Facility Agreement”) with TMC related to the construction and operation of a new 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility in Yokkaichi, Japan, referred to as “Fab 6”, which is primarily intended to provide cleanroom space to continue the transition of the parties’ existing 2D NAND manufacturing capacity to BiCS 3D NAND manufacturing capacity.
The Company assesses these securities for indications of other-than-temporary impairments.
We are not able to directly control product delivery schedules or quality assurance.
Shortages of critical components such as DRAM and NAND-flash memory, or materials such as glass substrates, stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium, platinum or cerium, may increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs.
As our older patents expire, and the coverage of our newer patents may be different, it may be more difficult to negotiate or renew favorable license agreement terms or a license agreement at all.
•provisional estimates related to tax reform.
We are also contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of Flash Ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from Flash Ventures.
Company management has made estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of certain assets and liabilities in conformity with U.S. GAAP.
Our operations, and those of certain of our suppliers and customers, are concentrated in large, purpose-built facilities, subjecting us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted.
A change in the fair value of non-designated hedges is recognized in earnings in the period incurred and is reported as a component of Other expense, net.
Diluted income (loss) per common share is computed using net income (loss) and the weighted average number of common shares and potentially dilutive common shares outstanding during the period.


item2.txt
We believe our cash, cash equivalents and cash generated from operations as well as our available credit facilities will be sufficient to meet our working capital, debt, stock repurchases, dividend and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months.
•In February 2018, we made a voluntary partial prepayment of $500 million of the U.S.
Our top 10 customers accounted for 44% and 42% of our net revenue for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively, and 41% of our net revenue for each of the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Deterioration in the PC market may continue or accelerate, which could cause our operating results to suffer.
We seek to be an industry-leading developer, manufacturer and provider of innovative storage solutions, balancing our core hard drive and flash memory business with growing investments in newer areas that we believe will provide us with higher growth opportunities.
Our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
It is also possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose, illegally or otherwise, our proprietary technologies and processes, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes.
Our sales to the CE, cloud computing, network attached storage (“NAS”), surveillance systems and enterprise markets, which have accounted for and may continue accounting for an increasing percentage of our overall revenue, may grow at a slower rate than current estimates or not at all, which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.
As forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our forecasts are not in line with demand increases.
Because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, cost of goods sold, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
The costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, data privacy, anti-corruption and tax regulations, customers’ standards of corporate citizenship, and industry and coalition standards, such as those established by the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (“EICC”), could cause an increase in our operating costs.
If our hard drive, solid-state products and our storage solutions products fail to offer a superior value proposition to alternative storage products, we will be at a competitive disadvantage and our business will suffer.
Our customers, including our OEM customers, may require, and some of our customers have notified us that they require, that our products contain only conflict free 3TG, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to meet this requirement at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting this requirement.


