fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
Represents a one-time cash-settled stock award that vested on November 30, 2017.
The 2018 Share Repurchase Program expires August 31, 2019.
As of May 31, 2019, the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors had been repurchased.
During the nine months ended May 31, 2019, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 43% of its net revenue and 82 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Some of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
An operating segment’s performance is evaluated based on its pre-tax operating contribution, or segment income.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
As of May 31, 2019, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide.
As of May 31, 2019, the Company has $2.0 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $416.5 million, $517.9 million and $480.1 million, respectively, as of May 31, 2019.
The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria).
The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% Senior Notes, was approximately $311.2 million, as of May 31, 2019.
The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.


item2.txt
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
During the three months ended February 28, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to lower materials purchases during the quarter and timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16 — “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Note 14 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
In addition, the added cost structures associated with our acquisitions have historically been relatively insignificant when compared to our overall cost structure.
Specifically, the EMS segment revenues increased 26% primarily due to (i) a 9% increase in revenues from new customers within our cloud business, (ii) a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (iii) an 8% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business and (iv) a 6% increase in revenues from existing customers within our print and retail business.
The decrease was partially offset by a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


