fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
The Company calculates its basic earnings per share by dividing net income attributable to Jabil Inc. by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
(1) Represents a one-time cash-settled stock award that vested on November 30, 2017.
On October 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee approved the modification of vesting criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2015.
As a result of the modification, 0.8 million awards vested during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, which resulted in approximately $24.9 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized for the three months ended November 30, 2017.
In July 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2017 Share Repurchase Program”).
The 2017 Share Repurchase Program expires on August 31, 2018.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Almost all of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
Net revenue for the operating segments is attributed to the segment in which the service is performed.
An operating segment’s performance is evaluated based on its pre-tax operating contribution, or segment income.
All other non-segment assets are reviewed on a global basis by management.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria).
The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% senior notes, was approximately $311.7 million, as of November 30, 2017.


item2.txt
We derived a substantial majority, 92.3%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months ended November 30, 2017.
In September 2017, our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico received significant hurricane damage.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, we recognized $7.4 million of expenses, net of insurance proceeds of $10.3 million.
As we continue to assess the impact to our operations, we may incur additional costs in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
We also expect the majority of these costs will ultimately be offset by insurance coverage.
(1)  The sales cycle is calculated as the sum of days in accounts receivable and days in inventory, less the days in accounts payable; accordingly, the variance in the sales cycle quarter over quarter is a direct result of changes in these indicators.
See Note 13 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
Net Revenue.
EMS segment revenues increased 6% primarily due to a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our digital home business, a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our industrial and energy business, a 1% increase in revenues from customers in our automotive and transportation business and a 1% increase spread across various industries within the EMS segment.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
Accordingly, we do not differentiate or separately report revenue increases generated by acquisitions as opposed to existing business.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
(2) In July 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of our common stock as publicly announced in a press release issued on July 20, 2017.


