fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
The 2018 Share Repurchase Program expires August 31, 2019.
As of November 30, 2018, 7.9 million shares had been repurchased for $204.5 million and $145.5 million remains available under the 2018 Share Repurchase Program.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 48% of its net revenue and 75 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Some of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
An operating segment’s performance is evaluated based on its pre-tax operating contribution, or segment income.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
As of November 30, 2018, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide.
As of November 30, 2018, the Company has $2.3 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $410.2 million, $503.7 million and $449.5 million, respectively, as of November 30, 2018.
The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria).
The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% Senior Notes, was approximately $299.0 million, as of November 30, 2018.
The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.
The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs.
In addition, the beneficial interest of $162.2 million and $747.3 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, obtained in exchange for securitized receivables are reported as non-cash investing activities.


item2.txt
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets.
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16—“Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Note 14 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 10% due to (i) a 6% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and (ii) a 4% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business.
EMS segment revenues increased 22% primarily due to (i) a 11% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business, (ii) a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (iii) a 4% increase in revenues for customers within our computing and storage business and (iv) a 4% increase in revenues for customers within our printing business.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
For further information on our forward-looking statements see Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


