fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
Results for the six months ended February 28, 2019 are not necessarily an indication of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year ending August 31, 2019.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
The 2018 Share Repurchase Program expires August 31, 2019.
As of February 28, 2019, 13.9 million shares had been repurchased for $350.0 million, which utilized the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors.
During the six months ended February 28, 2019, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 46% of its net revenue and 78 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Some of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
An operating segment’s performance is evaluated based on its pre-tax operating contribution, or segment income.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
As of February 28, 2019, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide.
As of February 28, 2019, the Company has $2.2 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $410.5 million, $508.0 million and $463.3 million, respectively, as of February 28, 2019.
The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria).
The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% Senior Notes, was approximately $304.6 million, as of February 28, 2019.
The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.
The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs.


item2.txt
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets.
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the six months ended February 28, 2019, our largest customers include Amazon.com, Inc., Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
During the three months ended August 31, 2018, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter and the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
Net revenue increased during the three months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months ended February 28, 2018.
The decrease was partially offset by a 4% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
For further information on our forward-looking statements see Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


