The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) or any future period.
The acquisition of Linear is referred to as the Acquisition.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include the financial results of Linear prospectively from the Acquisition Date.
See Note 13, Acquisitions, of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
The Company has a 52-53 week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October.
Therefore, the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included an additional week of operations as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
Revenue from product sales to customers in other foreign countries is recognized subsequent to product shipment.
Title for shipments to these other foreign countries ordinarily passes within a week of shipment.
Accordingly, the Company defers the revenue recognized relating to these other foreign countries until title has passed.
For multiple element arrangements, the Company allocates arrangement consideration among the elements based on the relative fair values of those elements as determined using vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence.
The Company uses its best estimate of selling price to allocate arrangement consideration between the deliverables in cases where neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third-party evidence is available.We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, including to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report, except to the extent required by law.
The fiscal year ending November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) is a 53-week year and the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017) was a 52-week year.
Therefore, the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included an additional week of operations as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
The acquisition of Linear is referred to as the Acquisition.•servicing the substantial debt that we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition.
Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
timely fashion to accommodate changing customer demand.