fls.txt



item1.txt
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 (fiscal 2019) or any future period.
Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week fiscal year and fiscal 2018 was a 53-week fiscal year.
The additional week in fiscal 2018 was included in the first quarter ended February 3, 2018.
As further discussed in Note 2, Revenue Recognition and Note 13, New Accounting Pronouncements, the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09), in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Accordingly, the amounts for all periods presented in this Form 10-Q reflect the impact of ASU 2014-09.
Revenue from contracts with the United States government, government prime contractors and certain commercial customers is recorded over time using either units delivered or costs incurred as the measurement basis for progress toward completion.
Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables.
Contract costs include material, subcontract costs, labor and an allocation of indirect costs.
Changes in contract performance, estimated gross margin, including the impact of final contract settlements, and estimated losses are recognized in the period in which the changes or losses are determined.
As of August 3, 2019, the Company had repurchased a total of approximately 152.9 million shares of its common stock for approximately $5.9 billion under the Company's share repurchase program.
As of August 3, 2019, an additional $2.2 billion remains available for repurchase of shares under the current authorized program.
The following table provides the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI) by component and the related tax effects during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
The Company estimates $2.1 million, net of tax, of losses of forward foreign currency derivative instruments included in OCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
As of August 3, 2019, the Company held 8 investment securities, 6 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $30.0 million.
As of November 3, 2018, the Company held 15 investment securities, 15 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $205.0 million.
None of these investments have been in a loss position for more than twelve months.


item2.txt
The fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 (fiscal 2019) is a 52-week year and the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) was a 53-week year.
The following tables summarize revenue by end market for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 3, 2019 and August 4, 2018.
The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which our product will be incorporated.
As data systems for capturing and tracking this data and our methodology evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time.
Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market.


item3.txt



part2.txt
Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.
•trade policy, trade, travel, export or taxation disputes or restrictions, government sanctions, import or export tariffs, changes to export classifications or other restrictions imposed by the U.S. government or by the governments of the countries in which we do business, particularly in China; •costs associated with our foreign defined benefit pension plans.
Many of these risks are present in China.
While we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving policies, laws and regulations, including those relating to trade, taxation, import and export tariffs or restrictions, currency controls, antitrust, cybersecurity and data protection, the environment, indigenous innovation and the promotion of a domestic semiconductor industry, and intellectual property rights and enforcement and protection of those rights.
We continue to assert our intent to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely.
As we intend to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely, certain cash held outside the United States may not be available for repatriation as dividends to the United States in the future.
•servicing the substantial debt that we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition.
In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented.


