fls.txt



item1.txt
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 (fiscal 2019) or any future period.
Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week fiscal year and fiscal 2018 was a 53-week fiscal year.
As further discussed in Note 2, Revenue Recognition and Note 13, New Accounting Pronouncements, the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09), in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Accordingly, the amounts for all periods presented in this Form 10-Q reflect the impact of ASU 2014-09.
Revenue from contracts with the United States government, government prime contractors and certain commercial customers is recorded over time using either units delivered or costs incurred as the measurement basis for progress toward completion.
Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables.
Contract costs include material, subcontract costs, labor and an allocation of indirect costs.
Changes in contract performance, estimated gross margin, including the impact of final contract settlements, and estimated losses are recognized in the period in which the changes or losses are determined.
As of May 4, 2019, the Company had repurchased a total of approximately 152.0 million shares of its common stock for approximately $5.8 billion under the Company's share repurchase program.
As of May 4, 2019, an additional $2.3 billion remains available for repurchase of shares under the current authorized program.
The following table provides the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI) by component and the related tax effects during the first six months of fiscal 2019.
The Company estimates $2.3 million, net of tax, of losses of forward foreign currency derivative instruments included in OCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
As of May 4, 2019, the Company held 10 investment securities, 1 of which was in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $25.0 million.
As of November 3, 2018, the Company held 15 investment securities, 15 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $205.0 million.
None of these investments have been in a loss position for more than twelve months.
Realized gains or losses on investments are determined based on the specific identification basis and are recognized in nonoperating expense (income).


item2.txt
The fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 (fiscal 2019) is a 52-week year and the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) was a 53-week year.
The following tables summarize revenue by end market for the three- and six-month periods ended May 4, 2019 and May 5, 2018.
Consumer end market revenues decreased in the three-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year as a result of decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications.
Communications end market revenue increased in the three-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of an increase in demand for our products sold into the wireless sector and to a lesser extent wireline sector of this end market.
Industrial end market revenues decreased in the six-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, as a result of one less week of operations in the first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018, and a decrease in demand for products sold into the automation and memory test sectors of this end market, partially offset by an increase in demand for products sold into the aerospace and defense sector of this end market.


item3.txt



part2.txt
Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.
Uncertainty regarding the future stability of the global credit and financial markets could cause the value of the currency in the affected markets to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of those customers.
•a decline in the U.S. government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, a prolonged U.S. government shutdown or delays in contract awards; In addition, the semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic upturns and downturns.
As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.
•servicing the substantial debt that we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition.
In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented.
As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with adequate protection.
Even if patents are granted, enforcement may not be available or achieved under the circumstances.


