item1.txt
We are exposed to certain market risks relating to our ongoing business operations, including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of April 30, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from May 2018 through April 2019.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. Dollars at April 30, 2018, were $41.0 million for Euros, $10.9 million for Pounds Sterling and $41.8 million for New Taiwan Dollars.
At April 30, 2018, we had approximately $1.4 million of losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Included in this amount were $339,000 of unrealized losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through April 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange risk related to our investment in net assets in foreign countries.
To manage this risk, we entered into a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million in November 2017.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.
We selected the forward method under Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance related to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
As of April 30, 2018, we had $637,000 of realized gains and $39,000 of unrealized losses, net of tax, recorded as cumulative translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to this forward contract.


item2.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, approximately 55% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S. Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements.
Sales and service fees for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were $70.4 million, an increase of $12.2 million, or 21%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $4.9 million, or 8%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 20%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, due primarily to improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for the Hurco and Milltronics product lines.
The increase in sales was primarily attributable to an increased sales volume of entry-level vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco and Milltronics product lines.
European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 14%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in the United Kingdom and Italy.
Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 22%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China and India, both of which are sales regions Hurco has been targeting for growth.
The year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools and computer control systems and software for the second quarter of fiscal 2018, exclusive of an 8% favorable currency impact, was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all regions.
Sales of service parts increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket sales in the Americas and Europe.


item3.txt
We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar).


part2.txt
This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A9(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


