item1.txt
We are exposed to certain market risks relating to our ongoing business operations, including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of January 31, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from February 2018 through January 2019.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. Dollars at January 31, 2018, were $40.1 million for Euros, $9.8 million for Pounds Sterling and $37.4 million for New Taiwan Dollars.
At January 31, 2018, we had approximately $2.2 million of losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Included in this amount were $1.2 million of unrealized losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through January 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange risk related to our investment in net assets in foreign countries.
To manage this risk, we entered into a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million in November 2017.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.
We selected the forward method under Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance related to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
As of January 31, 2018, we had $609,000 of realized gains and $106,000 of unrealized losses, net of tax, recorded as cumulative translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to this forward contract.


item2.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
Changes in currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our operating results and consolidated financial statements as reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S. Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements.
Sales and service fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were $68.4 million, an increase of $19.7 million, or 40%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $4.4 million, or 9%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales in the Americas for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 26% compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and reflected improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for all product lines (Hurco, Takumi and Milltronics).
European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 50%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 15%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Italy.
Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 41%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 8%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand of Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in China, and included a notable increase in sales of Hurco machines in Southeast Asia.
The increase in sales of Computerized Machine Tools during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding prior year period was primarily due to increased customer demand from customers across all three regions and for all product lines (Hurco, Takumi and Milltronics).


item3.txt
We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar).


part2.txt
(2)Represents shares of our common stock that were withheld to satisfy the income tax obligations of recipients of awards of 32,153 restricted shares and earned performance shares granted under the 2008 Plan and 4,916 restricted shares granted under the 2016 Equity Plan in connection with the vesting of such awards.
During the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform non-audit, tax planning services.


