item1.txt
We are exposed to certain market risks relating to our ongoing business operations, including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of July 31, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from August 2018 through July 2019.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. Dollars at July 31, 2018, were $35.8 million for Euros, $10.0 million for Pounds Sterling and $38.2 million for New Taiwan Dollars.
Included in this amount were $4,000 of unrealized losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through July 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange risk related to our investment in net assets in foreign countries.
To manage this risk, we entered into a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million in November 2017.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.
We selected the forward method under Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance related to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
As of July 31, 2018, we had $632,000 of realized gains and $69,000 of unrealized gains, net of tax, recorded as cumulative translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to this forward contract.
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.


item2.txt
Sales and service fees for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $78.8 million, an increase of $18.0 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $1.8 million, or 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 13%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, due primarily to improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for the Hurco and Milltronics product lines.
The increase in sales was mainly attributable to an increased sales volume of vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi product lines.
European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 31%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and France.
Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 55%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling and lathe machines in China and India.
The year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools and computer control systems and software for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, exclusive of a 3% favorable currency impact, was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all of our three geographic regions.
Sales of service parts increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket sales in the Americas and France.
Service fees increased slightly in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to increased demand for aftermarket service in the United Kingdom and the Americas.
Orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $76.0 million, an increase of $13.4 million, or 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $2.0 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 9%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
European orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 25%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.


item3.txt
We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar).


part2.txt
This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A9(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


