fls.txt



item1.txt
Seagate Technology plc (the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and their related controllers, solid state hybrid drives (“SSHD”) and storage subsystems.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory.
Its portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.
Such adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
Both the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017 consisted of 13 weeks and 39 weeks, respectively.
There have been no significant changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies.
In May 2014, August 2015, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2014-09 (ASC Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, ASU 2015-14 (ASC Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Deferral of the Effective Date, ASU 2016-10 (ASC Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, ASU 2016-12 (ASC Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, and ASU 2016-20 (ASC Topic 606) Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, respectively.
ASC Topic 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
Based on its assessment, the Company plans to adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, utilizing the modified retrospective method of transition.
Accordingly, the Company will need to estimate variable consideration (e.g. rebates) related to customer incentives on these arrangements.
This ASU amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
The Company also elected to continue to account for share-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures.


item2.txt
We operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries.
References to “$” are to United States dollars.
•   Our Company.
•   Overview of the March 2018 Quarter.
We are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs.
In addition to HDDs, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and their related controllers, solid state hybrid drives (“SSHD”) and storage subsystems.


item3.txt
Interest Rate Risk.
As of March 30, 2018, we had no available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Financial Statements—Note 14.


