fls.txt



item1.txt
Seagate Technology plc (the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”) and storage subsystems.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory.
The Company’s enterprise data solutions (formerly referred to as the “cloud systems and solutions”) portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
The Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.
Such adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
The fiscal quarters ended December 28, 2018, September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, are also referred to herein as the “December 2018 quarter”, the “September 2018 quarter” and the “December 2017 quarter”, respectively.
The Company records estimated variable consideration at the time of revenue recognition as a reduction to net revenue.
For OEM sales, rebates are typically established by estimating the most likely amount of consideration expected to be received based on an OEM customer’s volume of purchases from Seagate or other agreed upon rebate programs.
The Company elected a practical expedient to expense sales commissions when the commissions are incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less.
In February 2016 and July 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, and Leases, ASU 2018-11, Leases (ASC Topic 842), Target Improvements, respectively.
These ASUs amend a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of these ASUs on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15 (ASC Subtopic 350-40), Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software - Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.


item2.txt
We operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries.
References to “$” are to United States dollars.
cyber-attacks or other data breaches that disrupt the Company’s operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information and cause reputational harm, and the cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities associated with the Company’s infrastructure updates to its information technology systems.
Our Company.
Overview of our business.
Overview of the December 2018 quarter.
Critical Accounting Policies.


item3.txt
Interest Rate Risk.
The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of December 28, 2018.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.


item4.txt
Effective February 5, 2019, Gianluca Romano, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will also serve as principal accounting officer replacing Geraldine Hottier-Fayon who had been serving as the Company’s interim principal accounting officer.


part2.txt
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1.


