fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, including, among other things, statements about our plans, strategies and prospects, market demand for our products, shifts in technology, estimates of industry growth, our ability to effectively manage our debt obligations and our cash liquidity position, our restructuring efforts, the sufficiency of our sources of cash to meet our cash needs for the next 12 months and our expectations regarding capital expenditures and projected cost savings for the fiscal year ending July 3, 2020.


item1.txt
Seagate Technology plc (“STX”) and its subsidiaries (collectively, unless the context otherwise indicates, the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”), solid state hybrid drives (“SSHDs”) and storage subsystems.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, reliability, high quality and cost effectiveness.
The Company’s SSD product portfolio is mainly comprised of Serial Attached SCSI (“SAS”) and Non-Volatile Memory Express (“NVMe”) and is designed for applications in enterprise servers and storage systems.
The Company’s enterprise data solutions (“EDS”) portfolio includes storage subsystems for enterprises, cloud service providers, scale-out storage servers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”).
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
The three months ended October 4, 2019 consisted of 14 weeks and the three months ended September 28, 2018 consisted of 13 weeks.
The fiscal quarters ended October 4, 2019, June 28, 2019 and September 28, 2018, are also referred to herein as the “September 2019 quarter”, the “June 2019 quarter”, and the “September 2018 quarter”, respectively.
In accordance with its policy, the Company reviews the estimated useful lives of its fixed assets on an ongoing basis.
This review indicated that the actual lives of certain manufacturing equipment at its manufacturing facilities were longer than the estimated useful lives used for deprecation purposes in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
The effect of this change in estimate increased the September 2019 quarter net income by $23 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.09.
Accordingly, the Company applied the new lease accounting standard prospectively to leases existing or commencing on or after June 29, 2019.
The Company elected to apply the practical expedients which allow for not reassessing whether existing contracts contain leases, the classification of existing leases and whether the existing initial direct costs meet the new definition.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and the corresponding lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Lease liabilities are measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments and ROU assets are based on the lease liability, adjusted for lease prepayments, lease incentives received and the lessee’s initial direct costs.
These options are reflected in the ROU asset and lease liability when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option.
The Company’s lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees.


item2.txt
The September 2019 quarter was 14 weeks and the June 2019 quarter and September 2018 quarter were each 13 weeks.
You should read this discussion in conjunction with financial information and related notes included elsewhere in this report.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries.
References to “$” are to United States dollars.
•Critical Accounting Policies.
For an overview of our business, see “Part I, Item 1.
During the September 2019 quarter, we shipped 98 exabytes of HDD storage capacity.


item3.txt
As of October 4, 2019, we had no available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.
The contracts were effective as of October 4, 2019 and will mature on September 16, 2025.
The objective of the interest rate swap agreements is to eliminate the variability of interest payment cash flows associated with variable interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Financial Statements—Note 13.


