The company’s software offerings include solutions software, which contains many of the company’s strategic areas including analytics, data and security; transaction processing software, which primarily runs mission-critical systems for clients; integration software, which helps clients to create, connect and optimize their applications data and infrastructure; and, operating systems software, which provides operating systems for IBM Z and Power Systems hardware. Many of these offerings can be delivered entirely or partially through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models, while others are delivered as on-premise software licenses. 
There were no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and the year ended December 31, 2017. 
The following is a summary of the more significant legal matters involving the company. 
The company’s hardware offerings include the sale or lease of system servers and storage solutions. These products can also be delivered through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models, such as Storage-as-a-Service. The company also offers installation services for its more complex hardware products. Hardware offerings are often sold with distinct maintenance services, described under the Services section above. 
The average recorded investment of impaired leases and loans for Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific was $130 million, $55 million and $81 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and $173 million, $23 million and $161 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Both interest income recognized and interest income recognized on a cash basis on impaired leases and loans were immaterial for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. 
The net carrying amount of intangible assets decreased $221 million during the first quarter of 2018, primarily due to intangible asset amortization, partially offset by additions resulting from capitalized software. The aggregate intangible amortization expense was $340 million and $390 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. In addition, in the first three months of 2018, the company retired $231 million of fully amortized intangible assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by this amount. 
The company’s primary services offerings include infrastructure services, including outsourcing, and other managed services; application management services; global process services (GPS); maintenance and support; and consulting, including the design and development of complex IT systems to a client’s specifications (e.g., design and build). Many of these services can be delivered entirely or partially through cloud or as-a-Service delivery models. The company’s services are provided on a time-and-material basis, as a fixed-price contract or as a fixed-price per measure of output contract and the contract terms range from less than one year to over 10 years. 
The company did not have any significant troubled debt restructurings during the three months ended March 31, 2018 or for the year ended December 31, 2017. 
On October 29, 2013, Bridgestone Americas, Inc. (Bridgestone) sued IBM regarding a 2009 contract for the implementation of an SAP-based, enterprise-wide order management system. IBM counterclaimed against Bridgestone and its parent, Bridgestone Corp. The case is pending in the Middle District of Tennessee. 
The following tables provide a quantitative summary of the derivative and non-derivative instrument-related risk management activity at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, as well as for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Transaction Processing Software revenue of $1,341 million grew 5.7 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. Growth was driven by Z middleware, as clients continue to invest and grow their high-value, mission-critical workloads on the Z platform. 
The percentage of Global Financing receivables reserved increased from 1.1 percent at December 31, 2017, to 1.2 percent at March 31, 2018. The increase was driven by additional provisions of $4 million and by the overall decline in gross receivables, partially offset by write-offs of $6 million of receivables previously reserved. Specific reserves decreased 1 percent from $258 million at December 31, 2017, to $255 million at March 31, 2018. Unallocated reserves increased 10 percent from $78 million at December 31, 2017, to $86 million at March 31, 2018. 
Federal audit of amended tax returns filed for prior years ($0.8 billion); partially offset by a provisional charge ($0.1 billion) as a result of the January 2018 IRS guidance related to U.S. tax reform. The prior year negative tax rate was primarily driven by discrete tax items ($0.5 billion), including the first-quarter 2017 intra-entity transfer of assets ($0.6 billion). Income from continuing operations of $1.7 billion decreased 4.4 percent and the net income margin was 8.8 percent, a decrease of 0.9 points versus the first quarter of 2017. Net income of $1.7 billion decreased 4.1 percent year to year. 
Global Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as a stand-alone entity. Global Financing facilitates IBM clients’ acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise, while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment include equipment returned at the end of a lease, surplus internal equipment and used equipment purchased externally. Residual value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception. Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease. Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio. 
In addition to the revenue presentation by reportable segment, the company also measures revenue performance on a geographic basis. 
Within GBS, total strategic imperatives revenue of $2.5 billion grew 12 percent as reported (6 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Cloud revenue of $1.0 billion grew 19 percent as reported (12 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.2 billion. 
Within Systems Hardware, IBM Z revenue grew 59.3 percent as reported (54 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. The adoption of the z14 was again broad based with new clients added to the platform across several countries during the quarter. The company continues to address emerging workloads across the Z platform including blockchain, machine learning, dev ops and payments. The new z14 model, designed specifically for cloud environments, was recently announced bringing the power of IBM Z to a broader set of clients. The mainframe continues to deliver a high-value, secure and scalable platform that is critical in managing clients’ complex environments. 
Signings include Infrastructure Services, Consulting, Global Process Services and Application Management contracts. Contract extensions and increases in scope are treated as signings only to the extent of the incremental new value. Technical Support Services is not included in signings as maintenance contracts tend to be more steady state, where revenues equal renewals. 
Pre-tax income of $1,333 million increased 5.1 percent in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. While the pre-tax margin declined 0.3 points to 26.2 percent, this included an impact of 1.8 points from higher workforce rebalancing charges in the current year. 