The net carrying amount of intangible assets decreased $360 million during the first six months of 2019, primarily due to intangible asset amortization, partially offset by additions resulting from capitalized software. The aggregate intangible amortization expense was $307 million and $610 million for the second quarter and first six months of 2019, respectively, versus $342 million and $683 million for the second quarter and first six months of 2018, respectively. In 
The following is a summary of the more significant legal matters involving the company.
The average recorded investment of impaired leases and loans for Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific were $146 million, $48 million and $50 million, respectively, for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and $128 million, $55 million and $78 million, respectively, for the three months ended June 30, 2018. Both interest income recognized and interest income recognized on a cash basis on impaired leases and loans were immaterial for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
Noncontrolling interest amounts of $4.9 million and $3.8 million, net of tax, for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $11.9 million and $11.7 million, net of tax, for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The above three divested businesses are reported in other – divested businesses. Refer to note 8, “Segments,” for additional information. 
The company recorded net gains on sale and leaseback transactions of $5 million and $41 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
Pre-tax stock-based compensation cost for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased $10 million compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. This was due to an increase related to restricted stock units ($13 million), partially offset by decreases in performance share units ($1 million), stock options ($1 million) and the conversion of stock-based compensation previously issued by acquired entities ($1 million).
Pre-tax stock-based compensation cost for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $7 million compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. This was due to an increase related to restricted stock units ($16 million), partially offset by decreases in performance share units ($5 million), stock options ($2 million) and the conversion of stock-based compensation previously issued by acquired entities ($2 million).
For the three and six months ending June 30, 2019, revenue was reduced by $22 million and $35 million, respectively, for performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods mainly due to changes in estimates on percentage-of-completion based contracts.  As described in the “Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings” section, the company characterizes certain retirement-related costs as operating and others as non-operating. Utilizing this characterization, operating retirement-related costs in the second quarter of 2019 were $358 million, a decrease of $6 million compared to the second quarter of 2018. Non-operating costs of $136 million in the second quarter of 2019 decreased $258 million year to year, driven primarily by lower recognized actuarial losses ($281 million) and a higher expected return on plan assets ($31 million), partially offset by higher interest costs ($40 million). For the first six months of 2019, operating retirement-related costs were $711 million, a decrease of $39 million and non-operating costs were $274 million, a decrease of $522 million compared to the prior year, driven primarily by the same factors as above. 
Power Systems revenue grew 1.0 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. There was continued growth in high-end offerings and in Linux with HANA on Power, leveraging the performance of the POWER9-based systems. In the second quarter, the company announced IBM Power Systems Virtual Servers available in the IBM Cloud which provide clients with hybrid cloud scaleup compute for AIX and IBM i workloads. There was continued double-digit growth in the high-end Power systems, partially offset by declines in the low-end and midrange systems, as reported and adjusted for currency.
Cognitive Applications includes software that addresses vertical and domain-specific solutions, increasingly infused with AI. This includes areas such as health, financial services, IOT solutions, The Weather Company and security software and services. In the second quarter, Cognitive Applications revenue of $1,454 million grew 2.9 percent as reported (5 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year, led by strong performance in the integrated security software and services portfolio and growth across many industry vertical solutions. The performance in Security included continued strong results in threat management software and services offerings, as well as managed security intelligence and data security solutions.
Global Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as a stand-alone entity. Global Financing facilitates IBM clients’ acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise, while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment include equipment returned at the end of a lease, surplus internal equipment and used equipment purchased externally. Residual value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception. Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease. Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio.
 Global Process Services second-quarter revenue of $258 million was flat as reported, but grew 3 percent adjusted for currency.
In the second quarter, pre-tax income of $2,001 million decreased 1.4 percent compared to the prior year. The pre-tax margin decreased 0.3 points to 32.0 percent in the second quarter, which included an impact of 2.1 points from workforce rebalancing actions in the second quarter of 2019. For the first six months of the year, pre-tax income of $3,768 million increased 1.6 percent compared to the prior year and the pre-tax margin improved 1.0 points to 31.1 percent. The year-to-year improvement in the six-month period reflects strong transactional performance in high-value areas and a lower level of workforce actions year to year, partially offset by lower IP income and ongoing investments in key strategic areas in the first six months of 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018.
Application Management revenue of $1,919 million declined 1.4 percent as reported, but grew 2 percent adjusted for currency compared to the second-quarter 2018. Cloud Migration Factory continued to contribute to growth, offset by continued declines in traditional application management engagements.
 Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.8 billion decreased 0.3 percent and the pre-tax margin was 14.4 percent, an increase of 0.6 points versus the prior-year period. The continuing operations effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 was 9.7 percent, a decrease of 3.7 points compared to the second quarter of 2018. The year-to-year change was primarily driven by an increase in tax benefits attributable to foreign audit activity (3.7 points). Net income of $2.5 billion increased 3.9 percent and the net income margin was 13.0 percent, an increase of 1.0 points year to year.
 Total expense and other (income) decreased 2.8 percent in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year. The year-to-year performance was driven by gains from the divestitures (9 points), the impact of currency (4 points) and lower non-operating retirement-related costs (4 points), partially offset by a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges (7 points) and higher spending and litigation matters (5 points). Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) decreased 0.2 percent year to year, driven primarily by the same factors, excluding the non-operating retirement-related costs.