item1.txt
At September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the total amount of restricted cash included in “Other noncurrent assets, net” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was approximately $1 million and $2 million, respectively.
Restricted cash was included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period amounts shown in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the six months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with amendments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, creating new ASC Topic 606 (“Topic 606”) that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP.
Topic 606 was adopted by the Company effective April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
As a result of adopting Topic 606, the Company now recognizes revenue for the license component of all its on-premise software arrangements at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” and Note 3, “Impact of Adopting Topic 606,” for a discussion of the changes in the Company’s policies for revenue recognition and commissions, and the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting Topic 606.
ASU 2016-16 was adopted by the Company when effective in first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective method of adoption.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 (“ASU 2016-02”), Leases (Topic 842), with amendments in 2018, requiring a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet for leases with accounting lease terms of more than 12 months.
ASU 2016-02 will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and requires the modified retrospective method of adoption, with an option to recognize the cumulative effect of applying the new standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The Company will adopt ASU 2016-02 when effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
Although the Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, the Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.


item2.txt
Our solutions enable customers to plan, develop, automate, manage and secure applications across mobile, cloud, distributed and mainframe platforms.
We are able to bidirectionally leverage our core strengths and development efforts in our products within the Enterprise Solutions segment to bring new innovations to the Mainframe Solutions segment and vice versa.
Our strong market position enables our investment in development, innovation and support of the mainframe platform to be among the largest in the industry, which sustains ongoing customer commitment to our Mainframe Solutions.
Our Services segment leverages our expertise across our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments and helps customers deploy and maintain our solutions.
CA’s cloud-based solutions in this space help customers to collaboratively plan, prioritize and track agile software development at scale.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with amendments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, which creates new ASC Topic 606 (“Topic 606”) that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP.
As a result of adopting Topic 606, we now recognize revenue for the license component of all our on-premise software arrangements at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” and Note 3, “Impact of Adopting Topic 606,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the changes in our policies for revenue recognition and commissions, and the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting Topic 606.
•Total revenue decreased due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
On a Topic 605 basis, total revenue increased $11 million primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
•Under both Topic 606 and Topic 605, operating expenses decreased primarily due to a decrease in amortization of capitalized software costs.
•Mainframe Solutions revenue increased primarily due to an increase in revenue from new sales that offset the decline in revenue contribution from renewals, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $5 million.
Mainframe Solutions operating margin was consistent primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom.
•Enterprise Solutions revenue increased primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis and an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $4 million.
Enterprise Solutions operating margin increased primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs from prior period acquisitions, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom, and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.
•Services revenue decreased primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange effect.


item4.txt
Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”).


