Item 4.
Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

The Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2018.
Our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management team supervised and participated in this evaluation.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2018, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective, due to the fact that we are not yet able to conclude that the material weakness described below in this Item 4 has been remediated by the changes we made in response to that material weakness.
As previously disclosed in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2017, our management identified a material weakness as of such date.
A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements will not be able to be prevented or detected in a timely basis.
The identified material weakness is in connection with our controls over the revenue recognition process at our foreign subsidiaries, specifically whether revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied prior to recognizing revenue and the failure to sufficiently assess gross versus net revenue indicators to certain revenue transactions.
We determined that controls over the revenue recognition process were not operating effectively and the resulting control gap amounted to a material weakness in our controls over financial reporting.
During the periods following our initial identification of the material weakness referred to above, management assessed various alternatives to remediate this material weakness and we implemented changes to our system of internal controls, which included the implementation of enhanced internal auditing procedures, whereby revenue transactions are subjected to an additional review process at the corporate level to ensure the correct accounting methodology is applied to all revenue transactions.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, management continued to take actions to improve accounting operations in our European divisions.
Although we have implemented such changes to our internal controls over financial reporting as described above, at this time, we cannot conclude that the material weakness has been remediated and we will continue to evaluate personnel changes and upgrade systems and processes throughout fiscal year 2018 as necessary.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, management implemented process improvements in order to improve operations in our European division in connection with the identified material weakness noted above.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Exhibits




SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
