All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The interim financial data as of September 30, 2019, and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 are unaudited; however, in the opinion of MKS, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet presented as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the consolidated audited financial statements as of that date.
2018-16,  “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard permits the use of the Overnight Index Swap Rate (“OIS”) based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes under Topic 815 in addition to the interest rates on direct treasury obligations of the U.S. government, the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) swap rate, the OIS rate based on the Federal Funds Effective Rate and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap Rate.
The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments to this update.
2016-02, “Leases”.
As such, the Company did not adjust prior period amounts.
The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs for leases that commenced prior to the effective date.
The Company implemented internal controls and a lease accounting information system to enable preparation on adoption.
right-of-use assets and $20,192 and $54,147 of short-term and long-term lease liabilities, respectively.
non-real estate leases are mainly comprised of automobiles but also include copiers, printers and other lower-valued items.
The Company does not have any finance leases.10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for our customers.
sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions.
We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training.
Our primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, research and defense.
Acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. On February 1, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “ESI Merger”).
We paid the former ESI stockholders aggregate consideration of approximately $1.033 billion, excluding related transaction fees and expenses, and non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of approximately $31 million for a total purchase consideration of approximately $1.063 billion.The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.