fls.txt



item1.txt
The interim financial data as of September 30, 2018, and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are unaudited; however, in the opinion of MKS, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet presented as of December 31, 2017 has been derived from the consolidated audited financial statements as of that date.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the MKS Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2018.
In March 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2018-05, “Income Taxes (Topic 740).” This standard is an amendment that adopts the language of Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, “Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718)-Scope of Modification Accounting.” This standard provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, “Compensation-Retirement Benefits (Topic 715)-Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost.” This standard requires that an employer disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net benefit cost.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, “Business Combinations (Topic 805)-Clarifying the Definition of a Business.” This standard clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses.
This standard also provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities is a business.
Therefore, amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230)-Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” This standard addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of addressing the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under Topic 230.
In transition, lessees and lessors have the option to either apply the standard retrospectively through a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption or they can apply the new standard to comparative periods presented.
The FASB issued additional updates to the new standard in Topic 842 (Update 2018-01 in January 2018 – Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842, Update 2018-10 – Codification Improvements to Topic 842 and Update 2018-11 in July 2018 – Targeted Improvements).
The management team has communicated its approach to the Audit Committee and will provide regular updates as appropriate.
The Company is currently accumulating details on the population of leases and entering these details into a selected software database, which will be a repository and accounting solution for reporting and disclosure requirements required by the standard.
The Company will continue to assess and disclose the impact that this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements, disclosures and related controls, when known.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” (“ASC 606”).
This ASU provides for a single comprehensive model to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and has replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity.
Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, sub-micron positioning, vibration control, and optics.
We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training.
We have a diverse base of customers.
Approximately 56% and 58% of our net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were from sales to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers.
These include, but are not limited to, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense.
A significant portion of our international net revenues was from South Korea, Japan, Germany, China and Israel.
We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues.
Long-lived assets located outside of the United States were $76 million and $78 million as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts.
On October 29, 2018, we entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”), an innovator in laser-based manufacturing solutions for the micro-machining industry.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors.


