fls.txt



item1.txt
On March 25, 2016, a second putative class action complaint captioned Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief.
A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Merger Agreement.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 in the section entitled “Risk Factors” as referenced in Part II, Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity.
Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, sub-micron positioning, vibration control, and optics.
Our primary served markets are manufacturers of capital equipment for semiconductor manufacturing, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, as well as research and defense.
We have a diverse base of customers.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry is experiencing a moderation in capital spending in the near term and therefore we expect to see a similar moderation on our semiconductor revenue in the third quarter of 2018.
A significant portion of our international net revenues was from South Korea, Japan, Germany, Israel and China.
Long-lived assets located outside of the United States were $76 million and $78 million as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts.
There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies since December 31, 2017, other than the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” (“ASC 606”) as outlined below.
We adopted ASC 606 on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
The reported results for the six months ended June 30, 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 guidance while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of ASC 605, Revenue Recognition (ASC 605).
Installation services are not significant and are usually completed in a short period of time (normally less than two weeks) and therefore, recorded at a point in time when the installation services are completed, rather than over time as they are not material.
Extended warranty, service contracts, and repair services, which are transferred to the customer over time, are recorded as revenue as the services are performed.
For repair services, we make an accrual at quarter end based upon historical repair times within our product groups to record revenue based upon the estimated number of days completed to date, which is consistent with ratable recognition.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services.
Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the products or services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the product or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.
Sales, value add, and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue.
For certain products or services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer.
None of our contracts as of June 30, 2018 contain a significant financing component.
These contracts include multiple promises that we evaluate to determine if the promises are separate performance obligations.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
On March 25, 2016, a second putative class action complaint captioned Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief.
A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Merger Agreement.


