fls.txt



item1.txt
The terms “MKS” and the “Company” refer to MKS Instruments, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The interim financial data as of March 31, 2019, and for the three months ended March 31, 2019 are unaudited; however, in the opinion of MKS, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the MKS Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2019.
In October 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2018-16, “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard permits the use of the Overnight Index Swap Rate (“OIS”) based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes under Topic 815 in addition to the interest rates on direct treasury obligations of the U.S. government, the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) swap rate, the OIS rate based on the Federal Funds Effective Rate and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap Rate.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019, and used the effective date as its date of initial application.
As such, the Company did not adjust prior period amounts.
The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs under ASU 2016-02 for leases that commenced prior to the effective date.
Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of initially applying this new standard, resulting in the addition of $71,042 of right-of-use assets and $20,192 and $54,147 of short-term and long-term lease liabilities, respectively.
The right-of-use asset is net of the deferred rent liability, prepaid rent and a net favorable lease asset which were re-classified to the right-of-use asset upon adoption of the standard.
The Company has operating leases for real estate and non-real estate, which are comprised of automobiles, in North America, Europe, and Asia.
The Company does not have any finance leases.
The Company has lease arrangements with lease and non-lease components, has elected to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component, and has allocated all of the contract consideration to the lease component only.
The Company has existing net leases in which the non-lease components (e.g. are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred.
Such payments primarily include common area maintenance charges and increases in rent payments that are driven by factors such as future changes in an index (e.g., the Consumer Price Index).
Ending deferred revenue as of March 31, 2019 included $13,322 of current deferred revenue, $3,018 of long-term deferred revenue and $7,734 of current customer advances.
Refer to Note 17 for revenue by reportable segment, geography and groupings of similar products.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions.
We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training.
Our primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, research and defense.
Acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. On February 1, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “ESI Merger”).
We paid the former ESI stockholders aggregate consideration of approximately $1.033 billion, excluding related transaction fees and expenses, and non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of approximately $31 million for a total purchase consideration of approximately $1.063 billion.
We funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of our available cash on hand and the proceeds from our senior secured term loan facility as described below.
We have a diverse base of customers.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, international net revenues accounted for approximately 52% and 50% of our total net revenues.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Newport Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief.


