fls.txt



item1.txt
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The interim financial data as of June 30, 2019, and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 are unaudited; however, in the opinion of MKS, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2019.
2018-16,  “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard permits the use of the Overnight Index Swap Rate (“OIS”) based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes under Topic 815 in addition to the interest rates on direct treasury obligations of the U.S. government, the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) swap rate, the OIS rate based on the Federal Funds Effective Rate and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap Rate.
The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments to this update.
The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs for leases that commenced prior to the effective date.
The Company implemented internal controls and a lease accounting information system to enable preparation on adoption.
right-of-use assets and $20,192 and $54,147 of short-term and long-term lease liabilities, respectively.
For additional information on the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting this standard, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The Company has various operating leases for real estate and non-real estate items.
The non-real estate leases are mainly comprised of automobiles but also include copiers, printers and other lower-valued items.
The Company does not have any finance leases.
The Company has existing net leases in which the non-lease components (e.g. are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred.
Such payments primarily include common area maintenance charges and increases in rent payments that are driven by factors such as future changes in an index (e.g., the Consumer Price Index).
5.1 years, respectively, for the period ended June 30, 2019.
Refer to Note 17 for revenue by reportable segment, geography and groupings of similar products.
Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.


item2.txt
10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for our customers.
sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions.
We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training.
Our primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, research and defense.
Acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. On February 1, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “ESI Merger”).
We paid the former ESI stockholders aggregate consideration of approximately $1.033 billion, excluding related transaction fees and expenses, and non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of approximately $31 million for a total purchase consideration of approximately $1.063 billion.
We have a diverse base of customers.
A significant portion of our international net revenues was from China, Germany, South Korea, Japan and Israel.
We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In 2016, two putative class actions lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement.


