fls.txt



item1.txt
(1)  Tax benefit was $112 and $1,831 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The terms “MKS” and the “Company” refer to MKS Instruments, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The interim financial data as of March 31, 2018, and for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are unaudited; however, in the opinion of MKS, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet presented as of December 31, 2017 has been derived from the consolidated audited financial statements as of that date.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the MKS Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2018.
In March 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2018-05, “Income Taxes (Topic 740).” This standard is an amendment that adopts the language of Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
The provisions of this ASU were applied to the Company’s December 31, 2017 financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, “Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718)-Scope of Modification Accounting.” This standard provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, “Compensation-Retirement Benefits (Topic 715)-Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost.” This standard requires that an employer disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net benefit cost.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, “Business Combinations (Topic 805)-Clarifying the Definition of a Business.” This standard clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses.
This standard also provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities is a business.
Therefore, amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, “Income Taxes (Topic 740)-Intra-Entity Transfer of Assets Other Than Inventory.” This standard requires that an entity recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs as opposed to when the assets have been sold to an outside party.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230)-Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” This standard addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of addressing the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under Topic 230.
In transition, lessees and lessors are required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach.
The management team has communicated its approach to the Audit Committee and will provide regular updates as appropriate.
The Company is currently working at accumulating a complete population of leases from all of its locations.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 in the section entitled “Risk Factors” as referenced in Part II, Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our primary served markets are manufacturers of capital equipment for semiconductor manufacturing, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, as well as research and defense.
We have a diverse base of customers.
A significant portion of our international net revenues were in Japan, South Korea, Germany, Israel and China.
We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues.
Long-lived assets located outside of the United States were $78.4 million and $78.5 million as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts.
There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies since December 31, 2017, other than the adoption of Accounting Standard Update 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” (“ASC 606”) as outlined below.
For repair services, we make an accrual at quarter end based upon historical repair times within our product groups to record revenue based upon the estimated number of days completed to date, which is consistent with ratable recognition.
Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the products or services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the product or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.


item4.txt



part2.txt
On March 25, 2016, a second putative class action complaint captioned Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.


