fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three and six months ended August 3, 2019, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019. In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations. All inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Operating results for the periods presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the entire year. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. These amounts were not material to any of the periods presented. These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2019 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which amends the existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligation created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. The Company adopted the new lease accounting standard on February 3, 2019, using the modified retrospective approach by applying the new standard to leases existing at the date of initial application and not restating comparative periods. See “Note 3 - Leases” for additional information.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis. The standard eliminates the threshold for initial recognition in current GAAP and reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses. The measurement of expected credit losses is based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the financial assets. The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that modifies the disclosure requirements on fair value measurements. The new guidance adds, modifies and removes certain fair value measurement disclosure requirements. The guidance is effective for the company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. 
The Company's leases include facility leases and data center leases, which are all classified as operating leases. For data center leases, the Company elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and non-lease component as a single lease component. 
On July 6, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Cavium (the “Cavium acquisition”). Cavium was a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. The Cavium acquisition was primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions. The total consideration paid to acquire Cavium, which consisted of cash, common stock of the Company and share based compensation awards was approximately $6.2 billion. The merger consideration was funded with a combination of cash on hand, new debt financing and issuance of the Company’s common shares. See “Note 8 - Debt” for discussion of the debt financing.
The provisional amounts presented in the table above pertained to the preliminary purchase price allocation reported in the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2019. The measurement period adjustments were primarily related to changes in estimates related to finalizing Cavium’s 2018 U.S. tax return. The Company does not believe that the measurement period adjustments had a material impact on its consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets or cash flows in any periods reported.
The Company incurred total acquisition related costs of $53.7 million. The Company also incurred $22.8 million of debt financing costs. As of August 3, 2019, $0.4 million associated with the Revolving Credit Facility was classified in prepaid expenses and other current assets, $1.1 million associated with the Revolving Credit Facility was classified in other non-current assets, and $8.4 million associated with the term loan and senior notes was classified in long-term debt in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. See “Note 8. Debt” for additional information. Additionally, the Company incurred $2.9 million of equity issuance costs, which were recorded in additional paid-in capital in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. 
The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information presents the combined results of operations for the period presented, as if Cavium had been acquired as of the beginning of fiscal year 2018. The unaudited supplemental pro forma information includes adjustments to amortization and depreciation for acquired intangible assets and property and equipment, adjustments to share-based compensation expense, the purchase accounting effect on inventories acquired, interest expense, and transaction costs. The unaudited supplemental pro forma information presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations of the combined business had the Cavium acquisition actually occurred at the beginning of fiscal year 2018 or of the results of our future operations of the combined business.
On November 17, 2016, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program. On October 16, 2018, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a $700 million addition to the balance of its existing share repurchase program. As of August 3, 2019, there was $890 million remaining available for future share repurchases. The Company intends to effect share repurchases in accordance with the conditions of Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, but may also make repurchases in the open market outside of Rule 10b-18 or in privately negotiated transactions. The share repurchase program will be subject to market conditions and other factors, and does not obligate the Company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of its common shares and the repurchase program may be extended, modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. 
The Company’s Level 1 assets include institutional money-market funds that are classified as cash equivalents and which are valued primarily using quoted market prices. The Company’s Level 2 assets include time deposits, as the market inputs used to value these instruments consist of market yields. In addition, the severance pay fund is classified as Level 2 assets as the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments. 
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination. In connection with the May 2019 announcement for the divestiture of the Wi-Fi business, the Company reclassified $557.8 million of goodwill to assets held for sale. See “Note 4 - Business Combination” for discussion of the Cavium acquisition and "Note 1 - Basis of Presentation" for discussion of the Wi-Fi divestiture.
On June 22, 2018, the Company completed a public offering of (i) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.200% Senior Notes due 2023 (the “2023 Notes”) and (ii) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.875% Senior Notes due 2028 (the “2028 Notes” and, together with the 2023 Notes, the “Senior Notes”). 
During the three and six months ended August 3, 2019, the Company recognized $19.9 million and $39.2 million of interest expense in its condensed consolidated statements of operations related to interest, amortization of debt issuance costs and accretion of discount associated with the outstanding Term Loan and Senior Notes, respectively.
During the three and six months ended August 4, 2018, the Company recognized $9.1 million of interest expense in its condensed consolidated statements of operations related to interest, amortization of debt issuance costs and accretion of discount associated with the outstanding Term Loan and Senior Notes, respectively.


item2.txt
We are a leading supplier of infrastructure semiconductor solutions, spanning the data center core to network edge. We are a fabless semiconductor supplier of high-performance standard and semi-custom products with core strengths in developing and scaling complex System-on-a-Chip architectures integrating analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing functionality. Leveraging leading intellectual property and deep system-level expertise as well as highly innovative security firmware, our solutions are empowering the data economy and enabling communications across 5G, cloud, automotive, industrial and artificial intelligence applications. 
In the second quarter of fiscal 2020, our net revenue decreased year over year by 1% from $665.3 million net revenue in the second quarter fiscal 2019 compared with $656.6 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2020. The decrease was primarily due to decreased sales of our storage products by 18%. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in our networking product sales and other product sales, which increased by 16% and 13%, respectively with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. Our net revenue for the six months ended August 3, 2019 increased by $49.1 million compared to net revenue for the six months ended August 4, 2018. The increase was primarily due to increased sales of our networking products and other products by 27% and 6%, respectively, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. The growth was partially offset by decreased sales of our storage products, which decreased by 15% in relation to the six months ended August 4, 2018.
On May 20, 2019, we announced our intent to acquire Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the application specific integrated circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries Inc. (“GlobalFoundries”). This acquisition brings together Avera's leading custom design capabilities with our advanced technology platform and scale, creating a leading ASIC supplier for wired and wireless infrastructure. The agreements include transfer of Avera's revenue base, strategic design wins with leading infrastructure original equipment manufacturers, and a new long-term wafer supply agreement between GlobalFoundries and us. We will pay GlobalFoundries $650 million in cash at closing, subject to certain adjustments, plus an additional $90 million in cash if certain business conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months. The transaction is expected to close by January 2020 pending receipt of regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Our long-term strategy may include identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms, or divesting of certain business lines or activities. In particular, over time, we may acquire, make investments in, or merge with providers of product offerings that complement our business or may terminate such activities. 
Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations and may not achieve the benefits we expect from possible acquisitions. Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.
If we fail to complete a transaction, we may nonetheless have incurred significant expenses in connection with such transaction. Failure to complete a pending transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative perception of us in the investment community. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition, investment, divestiture, merger or joint venture could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. 
In connection with the integration of the Avera acquisition we may be required to obtain a U.S. government security clearance before we can market and sell our products to certain customers. Obtaining the clearance is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. Delays in obtaining the clearance may harm our financial condition and could result in us receiving less revenue in connection with this transaction than we anticipate.
If regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, or the imposition of new tariffs, were to materially limit our ability to make sales to any of our significant customers in China, it could harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition. For example, the recent US government export restrictions on a Chinese customer, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., has dampened demand for our products, adding to the already challenging macroeconomic environment. This export restriction was implemented in the second week of our second quarter of fiscal year 2020, limiting revenue from that customer to shipments during a short period during the quarter. In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our business which we cannot easily quantify such as the fact that some of our other customer’s products which use our solutions, such as hard disk drives, may also be impacted by this export restriction. If this export restriction is sustained for a long period of time, or if other export restrictions were to be imposed as a result of current trade tensions such as restrictions on trade with Mexico or other countries, it could have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations.
We typically sell products to customers in China pursuant to purchase orders rather than long term purchase commitments. Customers in China can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a penalty and, therefore, they may be more likely to do so while the tariffs and trade bans are in effect. See also, “We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships.” In addition, customers in China that may be subject to trade bans or tariffs, may develop their own products or solutions instead of purchasing from us or they may acquire products or solutions from our competitors or other third-party sources that are not be subject to the U.S. tariffs and trade restrictions. 
Changes in U.S. or foreign international tax, social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories or countries where we currently sell our products or conduct our business could adversely affect our business. The U.S. presidential administration has instituted or proposed changes in trade policies that include the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the U.S., economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries, and other government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we conduct our business. The new tariffs and other changes in U.S. trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, and certain foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing trade sanctions on certain U.S. goods. The U.S. presidential administration has indicated a focus on policy reforms that discourage corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions, including through tariffs or penalties on goods manufactured outside the U.S., which may require us to change the way we conduct business. These changes in U.S. and foreign laws and policies have the potential to adversely impact the U.S. economy or certain sectors thereof, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The trade dispute between Japan and South Korea, including changes to the legal and regulatory framework that applies to exports of certain chemicals from Japan to South Korea that are used in the production of semiconductors may impact the global supply chain for semiconductors and therefore may adversely impact our operations.
Changes in international tax laws such as the new tax in France impacting certain digital companies may adversely impact the business of the Company and our customers, or it may adversely impact international trade between the U.S. and France. See also, “Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules, or practices may adversely affect our financial results.”
Our sales are concentrated in a few large customers. If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.


