fls.txt



item1.txt
On May 29, 2019, the Company announced its intent to sell its Wi-Fi connectivity business to NXP for $1.76 billion in cash. The divestiture encompasses the Company's Wi-Fi and bluetooth technology portfolios and related assets. The business employs approximately 550 people worldwide and generated approximately $300 million in revenue in the Company's fiscal 2019. This transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. As of November 2, 2019, the Company classified assets held for sale of $600.9 million, which consisted of $30.1 million of inventory, $7.3 million of property, plant and equipment, $557.8 million of goodwill and $5.6 million of right-of-use lease asset. In addition, the Company classified liabilities held for sale of $5.6 million associated with lease and other liabilities in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet. The purchase price will be subject to working capital and other customary adjustments which will be determined at close. 
 On September 19, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of Aquantia Corp. (“Aquantia”). Aquantia is a manufacturer of high speed transceivers which includes copper and optical physical layer products. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the operating results of Aquantia for the period from the date of acquisition to the Company’s third quarter ended November 2, 2019. See “Note 4 - Business Combinations” for more information.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which amends the existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligation created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. The Company adopted the new lease accounting standard on February 3, 2019, using the modified retrospective approach by applying the new standard to leases existing at the date of initial application and not restating comparative periods. See “Note 3 - Leases” for additional information.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis. The standard eliminates the threshold for initial recognition in current GAAP and reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses. The measurement of expected credit losses is based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the financial assets. The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a software hosting arrangement that is a service contract and costs to develop or obtain internal-use software. The guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that modifies the disclosure requirements on fair value measurements. The new guidance adds, modifies and removes certain fair value measurement disclosure requirements. The guidance is effective for the company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. 
On September 19, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Aquantia. Aquantia is a manufacturer of high speed transceivers which includes copper and optical physical layer products. In accordance with the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated May 6, 2019, by and among the Company and Aquantia (the “Aquantia merger agreement”), the Company acquired all outstanding shares of common stock of Aquantia (the “Aquantia shares”) for $13.25 per share in cash. The merger consideration was funded with a combination of cash on hand and funds from the Company's revolving line of credit (“Revolving Credit Facility”). See “Note 8 - Debt” for additional information.
The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information presents the combined results of operations for each of the periods presented, as if Aquantia had been acquired as of the beginning of fiscal year 2019. The unaudited supplemental pro forma information includes adjustments to amortization and depreciation for acquired intangible assets and property and equipment, adjustments to share-based compensation expense, the purchase accounting effect on inventories acquired, interest expense, and transaction costs. For fiscal year 2019, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the Aquantia acquisition included (i) the purchase accounting effect of inventories acquired of $18.3 million (ii) transaction costs of $12.7 million, and (iii) share-based compensation expense of $3.5 million. The unaudited supplemental pro forma information presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations of the combined business had the Aquantia acquisition actually occurred at the beginning of fiscal year 2019 or of the results of our future operations of the combined business.
On July 6, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Cavium (the “Cavium acquisition”). Cavium was a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. The Cavium acquisition was primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions. The total consideration paid to acquire Cavium, which consisted of cash, common stock of the Company and share based compensation awards was approximately $6.2 billion. The merger consideration was funded with a combination of cash on hand, new debt financing and issuance of the Company’s common shares. See “Note 8 - Debt” for discussion of the debt financing.
The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information presents the combined results of operations for the period presented, as if Cavium had been acquired as of the beginning of fiscal year 2018. The unaudited supplemental pro forma information includes adjustments to amortization and depreciation for acquired intangible assets and property and equipment, adjustments to share-based compensation expense, the purchase accounting effect on inventories acquired, interest expense, and transaction costs. The unaudited supplemental pro forma information presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations of the combined business had the Cavium acquisition actually occurred at the beginning of fiscal year 2018 or of the results of our future operations of the combined business.
On November 17, 2016, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program. On October 16, 2018, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a $700 million addition to the balance of its existing share repurchase program. As of November 2, 2019, there was $890 million remaining available for future share repurchases. The Company intends to effect share repurchases in accordance with the conditions of Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, but may also make repurchases in the open market outside of Rule 10b-18 or in privately negotiated transactions. The share repurchase program will be subject to market conditions and other factors, and does not obligate the Company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of its common shares and the repurchase program may be extended, modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. 
The Company’s Level 1 assets include institutional money-market funds that are classified as cash equivalents and which are valued primarily using quoted market prices. The Company’s Level 2 assets include time deposits, as the market inputs used to value these instruments consist of market yields. In addition, forward contracts and the severance pay fund are classified as Level 2 assets as the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments. 
The Company currently carries debt that rely on the LIBOR as the benchmark rate. LIBOR is expected to be phased out as a benchmark rate by the end of 2021. The Company expects its debt to continue to use LIBOR until the rate is no longer available or a relevant governmental authority makes a public statement that LIBOR will no longer be available after a certain date. To the extent LIBOR ceases to exist, the Company will need to amend its credit agreements that utilize LIBOR as a factor in determining the interest rate. Currently, there is not a firm timeframe for this change. This update currently has no foreseeable impact on the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements; however, it may have an effect in the future.
The Credit Agreement requires that the Company and its subsidiaries comply, subject to certain exceptions, with covenants relating to customary matters such as creating or permitting certain liens, entering into sale and leaseback transactions, consolidating, merging, liquidating or dissolving, and entering into restrictive agreements. It also prohibits subsidiaries of the Company from incurring additional indebtedness, and requires the Company to comply with a leverage ratio financial covenant as of the end of any fiscal quarter. As of November 2, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. 
On June 22, 2018, the Company completed a public offering of (i) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.200% Senior Notes due 2023 (the “2023 Notes”) and (ii) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.875% Senior Notes due 2028 (the “2028 Notes” and, together with the 2023 Notes, the “Senior Notes”). 


item2.txt
In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, our net revenue decreased year over year by 22% from $851.1 million net revenue in the third quarter fiscal 2019 compared with $662.5 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. The decrease was primarily due to decreased sales of our storage products by 29%, networking product sales by 17% and other product sales by 2%. Our net revenue for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 decreased by $139.5 million compared to net revenue for the nine months ended November 3, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to decreased sales of our storage products by 21%. This
On May 29, 2019, we announced our intent to sell our Wi-Fi connectivity business to NXP for $1.76 billion in cash. The divestiture encompasses our Wi-Fi and bluetooth technology portfolios and related assets. The business employs approximately 550 people worldwide and generated approximately $300 million in revenue in our fiscal 2019. This transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. As of November 2, 2019, we classified assets held for sale of $600.9 million, which consisted of $30.1 million of inventory, $7.3 million of property, plant and equipment, $557.8 million of goodwill and $5.6 million of right-of-use lease asset. In addition, we classified liabilities held for sale of $5.6 million associated with lease and other liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The purchase price will be subject to working capital and other customary adjustments which will be determined at close. 
Subsequent to quarter end, on November 5, 2019, we acquired Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the Application Specific Integrated Circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries (“GlobalFoundries”) for $597.5 million in cash at closing. An additional $90 million in cash will be paid if certain conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months. Avera is a leading provider of Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) semiconductor solutions. We acquired Avera to expand our ASIC Design capabilities. The merger consideration was funded with new debt financing. See Note 8, “Debt” for additional information. 


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations and may not achieve the benefits we expect from possible acquisitions. Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.
If we fail to complete a transaction, we may nonetheless have incurred significant expenses in connection with such transaction. Failure to complete a pending transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative perception of us in the investment community. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition, investment, divestiture, merger or joint venture could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. 
We used a significant portion of our cash and incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of our acquisition of Cavium (the “Cavium acquisition”). We also used cash and indebtedness to finance our acquisition of Aquantia and indebtedness to finance our acquisition of Avera (collectively, the “Acquisitions”). Our use of cash in the Acquisitions reduced our liquidity and may (i) limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and (ii) increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.
Regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, and the imposition of new tariffs, have in the past and may continue to materially limit our ability to make sales to our significant customers in China, which has in the past and may continue to harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition. For example, the recent US government export restrictions on a number of Chinese customers, such as Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., and others have dampened demand for our products, adding to the already challenging macroeconomic environment. This export restriction was effective during our second and third quarters of fiscal year 2020, limiting revenue from these customers. In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our business which we cannot easily quantify such as the fact that some of our other customers' products which use our solutions, such as hard disk drives, may also be impacted by this export restriction. If this export restriction is sustained for a long period of time, or if other export restrictions were to be imposed as a result of current trade tensions such as restrictions on trade with other countries, it could have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations.
We typically sell products to customers in China pursuant to purchase orders rather than long term purchase commitments. Customers in China can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a penalty and, therefore, they may be more likely to do so while the tariffs and trade bans are in effect. See also, “We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships.” In addition, customers in China that may be subject to trade bans or tariffs, may develop their own products or solutions instead of purchasing from us or they may acquire products or solutions from our competitors or other third-party sources that are not be subject to the U.S. tariffs and trade restrictions. 
Changes in U.S. or foreign international tax, social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories or countries where we currently sell our products or conduct our business have in the past and could in the future adversely affect our business. The U.S. presidential administration has instituted or proposed changes in trade policies that include the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the U.S., economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries, and other government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we conduct our business. The new tariffs and other changes in U.S. trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, and certain foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing trade sanctions on certain U.S. goods. The U.S. presidential administration has indicated a focus on policy reforms that discourage corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions, including through tariffs or penalties on goods manufactured outside the U.S., which may require us to change the way we conduct business. These changes in U.S. and foreign laws and policies have the potential to adversely impact the U.S. economy or certain sectors thereof, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See also, "Adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the U.S. government in connection with trade with China have reduced the demand for our products and damaged our business."
In order to remain competitive, we have transitioned, and expect to continue to transition, our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies. We also evaluate the costs of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies including both actual costs and the opportunity costs related to the technologies we choose to forego. These transitions have required us to modify the manufacturing processes and to redesign some products, which has resulted in significant initial design and development costs. 
We have been, and may continue to be, dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot ensure that the foundries we use will be able to effectively manage any future transitions. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in a future transition or fail to efficiently implement a transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations.
The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking and infrastructure markets, is extremely competitive. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures. For example, we are facing, and expect we will continue to face, significant competition in the infrastructure, networking and SSD storage markets. Additionally, customer expectations and requirements have been evolving rapidly. For example, customers now expect us to provide turnkey solutions and commit to future roadmaps that have technical risks. 
We also may experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices by our competitors that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. In addition, some of these competitors may use their market power to dissuade our customers from purchasing from us. For example, certain U.S. and E.U. regulators are currently investigating whether a competitor may have abused its dominant market position to harm competition by forcing customers to deal with it exclusively, bundling its various semiconductors with other products, or by distorting the market by using illegal rebates.


