item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2018 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018. In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations. All inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Operating results for the periods presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the entire year. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. These amounts were not material to any of the periods presented. These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 3, 2018 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to add or clarify guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows. The amendments in the update provide guidance on eight specific cash flow issues. The amendments to the guidance should be applied using a retrospective transition method for each period presented and, if it is impracticable to apply all of the amendments retrospectively for some of the issues, the amendments for those issues would be applied prospectively as of the earliest date practicable. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that revises the definition of a business. The amendments provide a more robust framework for determining when a set of assets and activities is a business. The update is intended to help companies evaluate whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting. Unless the changes in terms or conditions meet all three criteria outlined in the guidance, modification accounting should be applied. The three criteria relate to changes in the terms and conditions that affect the fair value, vesting conditions, or classification of a share-based payment award. The guidance is required to be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which requires a lessee to record a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months. The standard also expands the required quantitative and qualitative disclosures for lease arrangements. The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. The Company will adopt the new lease accounting standard using a modified retrospective method and will not restate comparative periods. The Company currently estimates that the adoption of the new leasing standard will result in recognition of $135 million to $165 million in lease related right-of-use assets and liabilities on the company's condensed consolidated balance sheet, primarily related to real estate. The estimate could change as the Company finalizes estimates and proceeds towards implementation of the standard and will also fluctuate based on the lease portfolio, discount rates and foreign currency exchange rates as of the adoption date. The Company is in the process of implementing changes to its processes and systems to support the adoption of the new lease accounting standard. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis. The standard eliminates the threshold for initial recognition in current GAAP and reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses. The measurement of expected credit losses is based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the financial assets. The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a software hosting arrangement that is a service contract and costs to develop or obtain internal-use software. The guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that modifies the disclosure requirements on fair value measurements. The new guidance adds, modifies and removes certain fair value measurement disclosure requirements. The guidance is effective for the company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. 
On July 6, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Cavium (the “Cavium acquisition”). Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. The Cavium acquisition was primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions. In accordance with the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 19, 2017, by and among the Company and Cavium (the “Cavium merger agreement”), the Company acquired all outstanding shares of common stock of Cavium (the “Cavium shares”) for $40.00 per share in cash and 2.1757 shares of the Company’s common stock exchanged for each share of Cavium stock. The Company also made cash payments for the fractional shares that resulted from conversion as specified in the Cavium merger agreement. The merger consideration was funded with a combination of cash on hand, new debt financing and issuance of the Company’s common shares. See “Note 10 - Debt” for discussion of the debt financing.
Since the date of the acquisition, Cavium contributed $212.9 million and $254.3 million of the consolidated net revenue for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018. Cavium net loss incurred in the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018 was $184.8 million and $305.4 million, which included restructuring costs of $19.1 million and $41.4 million, respectively. 
The following supplemental pro forma information presents the combined results of operations for each of the periods presented, as if Cavium had been acquired as of the beginning of fiscal year 2018. The supplemental pro forma information includes adjustments to amortization and depreciation for acquired intangible assets and property and equipment, adjustments to share-based compensation expense, the purchase accounting effect on inventories acquired, interest expense, and transaction costs. For fiscal year 2018, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the Cavium acquisition included (i) share-based compensation expense of $37.8 million, (ii) the purchase accounting effect of inventories acquired of $223.0 million, (iii) bridge loan related debt issuance costs of $6.1 million and (iv) transaction costs of $121.8 million. The supplemental pro forma information presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations of the combined business had the Cavium acquisition actually occurred at the beginning of fiscal year 2018 or of the results of our future operations of the combined business.
The Company continuously evaluates its existing operations to increase operational efficiency, decrease costs and increase profitability. The Company recorded restructuring and other related charges of $27.0 million for the three months ended November 3, 2018. These restructuring costs consist of approximately $14.2 million in severance and related costs, $2.2 million in facilities and related costs, $0.7 million in other exit-related costs and $9.9 million in asset write off costs. The asset write off costs include $6.5 million of technology license impairment and $3.4 million from fixed asset write offs and accelerated depreciation expense as a result of facility consolidation. The Company expects to complete these restructuring actions by the end of fiscal 2020. 
The Company recorded restructuring and other related charges of $64.0 million for the nine months ended November 3, 2018. These restructuring and other related charges consist of approximately $37.9 million in severance and related costs, $13.2 million in facilities and related costs, $1.0 million in other exit-related costs and $11.9 million in asset write off costs and accelerated depreciation expense. The accrued restructuring liability as of November 3, 2018 was $31.2 million. 
The remaining accrued severance and related costs and the other exit-related costs are expected to be paid in fiscal 2019. The remaining accrued facility and related costs includes remaining payments under lease obligations related to vacated space that are expected to be paid through fiscal 2028, net of estimated sub-lease income. 
Short-term, highly liquid investments of $83.9 million and $267.6 million as of November 3, 2018 and February 3, 2018, respectively, included in cash and cash equivalents on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets are not included in the table above because the gross unrealized gains and losses were immaterial as the carrying values approximate fair value due to the short term maturity of such investments. 
The Company manages some of its foreign currency exchange rate risk through the purchase of foreign currency exchange contracts that hedge against the short-term effect of currency fluctuations. The Company’s policy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts with maturities less than 12 months which mitigates the effect of rate fluctuations on certain local currency denominated operating expenses. All derivative instruments are recorded at fair value in either prepaid expenses and other current assets or accrued liabilities. The Company reports cash flows from derivative instruments in cash flows from operating activities. The Company uses quoted prices to value its derivative instruments. There were no outstanding forward contracts at November 3, 2018 and February 3, 2018. 


item2.txt
We are a fabless semiconductor provider of high-performance, application-specific standard products. Our core strength is developing complex System-on-a-Chip (“SoC”) devices, leveraging our technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, and embedded and standalone integrated circuits. We also develop integrated hardware platforms along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution. Our broad product portfolio includes devices for storage, networking and connectivity.
On July 6, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Cavium. Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. Cavium designs, develops and markets semiconductor processors for intelligent and secure networks. Cavium's operating results from the acquisition date through our third quarter ended November 3, 2018 have been included in our consolidated financial statements. See “Note 3 - Business Combination” of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our acquisition of Cavium. 
In the third quarter of fiscal 2019, our net revenue increased year over year by 38.1% from $616.3 million net revenue in the third quarter fiscal 2018 compared with $851.1 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. The increase was primarily due to a 57% increase in our networking product sales and 29% increase in our storage product sales, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 4% in relation to the three months ended October 28, 2017. Our net revenue for the nine months ended November 3, 2018 increased by $327.2 million compared to net revenue for the nine months ended October 28, 2017. The increase was primarily due to increased sales of our networking products by 29% and storage products by 14%, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. The growth was offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 5% in relation to the nine months ended October 28, 2017. 


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common shares. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
Although the Credit Agreement contains restriction on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued contains restrictions on creating liens and entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness, liens or sale-leaseback transactions incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.
The Credit Agreement and the indenture for the Senior Notes each contains a number of covenants imposing restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The restrictions, among other things, restrict our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to create or incur certain liens, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, merge or consolidate with other companies, pay dividends, transfer or sell assets and make restricted payments. These restrictions are subject to a number of limitations and exceptions set forth in the Credit Agreement and the indenture for the Senior Notes. Our ability to meet the liquidity covenant set forth in the Credit Agreement may be affected by events beyond our control.
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, or to make anticipated capital expenditures. Our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Senior Notes) or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us, potentially hindering our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and increasing our costs of registration. 
We will be required to repurchase the Senior Notes at the option of each holder upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event as defined in the indenture for the Senior Notes. However, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the notes in cash at the time of any change of control repurchase event. Our failure to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control repurchase event would be an event of default under the indenture for the Senior Notes and could cause a cross-default or acceleration under certain future agreements governing our other indebtedness. The repayment obligations under the Senior Notes may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company. If we were required to pay the Senior Notes prior to their scheduled maturity, it could have a significant negative impact on our cash and liquidity and could impact our ability to invest financial resources in other strategic initiatives.
Our sales are concentrated in a few large customers. If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.
Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations and may not achieve the benefits we expect from possible acquisitions. Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.
The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking and infrastructure markets, is extremely competitive. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures. For example, we are facing, and expect we will continue to face, significant competition in the infrastructure, networking and SSD storage markets. Additionally, customer expectations and requirements have been evolving rapidly. For example, customers now expect us to provide turnkey solutions and commit to future roadmaps that have technical risks. 
In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced increased consolidation over the past several years. For example, Microchip Technology acquired Microsemi in May 2018, Avago Technologies Limited (now Broadcom Limited (“Broadcom”)) acquired Broadcom Corporation in February 2016 and LSI Corporation in May 2014; Intel acquired Altera Corporation in December 2015; and NXP Semiconductors acquired Freescale Semiconductor, Ltd. in December 2015. Consolidation among our competitors could lead to a changing competitive landscape, capabilities and market share, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our results of operations.
One of our primary focuses is on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “design wins,” to develop products for use in our customers’ products. We devote significant time and resources in working with our customers’ system designers to understand their future needs and to provide products that we believe will meet those needs and these bid selection processes can be lengthy. If a customer’s system designer initially chooses a competitor’s product, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products for use in that system because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for our customers. Thus, our failure to win a competitive bid can result in our foregoing revenues from a given customer’s product line for the life of that product. In addition, design opportunities may be infrequent or may be delayed. Our ability to compete in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to design products to ensure compliance with our customers’ and potential customers’ specifications. We expect to invest significant time and resources and to incur significant expenses to design our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. 


