item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three and six months ended August 4, 2018, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2018 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018. In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations. All inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Operating results for the periods presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the entire year. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. These amounts were not material to any of the periods presented. These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 3, 2018 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 
In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to add or clarify guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows. The amendments in the update provide guidance on eight specific cash flow issues. The amendments to the guidance should be applied using a retrospective transition method for each period presented and, if it is impracticable to apply all of the amendments retrospectively for some of the issues, the amendments for those issues would be applied prospectively as of the earliest date practicable. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that revises the definition of a business. The amendments provide a more robust framework for determining when a set of assets and activities is a business. The update is intended to help companies evaluate whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting. Unless the changes in terms or conditions meet all three criteria outlined in the guidance, modification accounting should be applied. The three criteria relate to changes in the terms and conditions that affect the fair value, vesting conditions, or classification of a share-based payment award. The guidance is required to be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis. The standard eliminates the threshold for initial recognition in current GAAP and reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses. The measurement of expected credit losses is based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the financial assets. The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a software hosting arrangement that is a service contract and costs to develop or obtain internal-use software. The guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
On July 6, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Cavium (the “Cavium acquisition”). Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. The Cavium acquisition was primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions. In accordance with the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 19, 2017, by and among the Company and Cavium (the “Cavium merger agreement”), the Company acquired all outstanding shares of common stock of Cavium (the “Cavium shares”) for $40.00 per share in cash and 2.1757 shares of the Company’s common stock exchanged for each share of Cavium stock. The Company also made cash payments for the fractional shares that resulted from conversion as specified in the Cavium merger agreement. The merger consideration was funded with a combination of cash on hand, new debt financing and issuance of the Company’s common shares. See “Note 4 - Debt” for discussion of the debt financing.
The following supplemental pro forma information presents the combined results of operations for each of the periods presented, as if Cavium had been acquired as of the beginning of fiscal year 2018. The supplemental pro forma information includes adjustments to amortization and depreciation for acquired intangible assets and property and equipment, adjustments to share-based compensation expense, the purchase accounting effect on inventories acquired, interest expense, and transaction costs. For fiscal year 2018, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the Merger included (i) share-based compensation expense of $37.8 million, (ii) the purchase accounting effect of inventories acquired of $199.7 million, (iii) interest expense of $6.1 million and (iv) transaction costs of $114.6 million. The supplemental pro forma information presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations of the combined business had the Merger actually occurred at the beginning of fiscal year 2018 or of the results of our future operations of the combined business.
The Credit Agreement requires that the Company and its subsidiaries comply, subject to certain exceptions, with covenants relating to customary matters such as creating or permitting certain liens, entering into sale and leaseback transactions, consolidating, merging, liquidating or dissolving, and entering into restrictive agreements. It also prohibits subsidiaries of the Company from incurring additional indebtedness, and requires the Company to comply with a leverage ratio financial covenant not to exceed 3 to 1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter. As of August 4, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. 
The 2023 Notes mature on June 22, 2023 and the 2028 Notes mature on June 22, 2028. The stated and effective interest rates for the 2023 Notes are 4.200% and 4.423%, respectively. The stated and effective interest rates for the 2028 Notes are 4.875% and 5.012%, respectively. The Company may redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at any time prior to their maturity at the redemption prices set forth in Senior Notes. In addition, upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event (which involves the occurrence of both a change of control and a ratings event involving the Senior Notes being rated below investment grade), the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date. The indenture governing the Senior Notes also contains certain limited covenants restricting the Company’s ability to incur certain liens, enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions and merge or consolidate with any other entity or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of the Company’s properties or assets to another person, which, in each case, are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions.
Through the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018, in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, the Company recognized revenue when there was persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery had occurred, the fee was fixed or determinable, and collection was reasonably assured. If the Company granted extended payment terms greater than its standard terms for a customer such that collectability was not assured, the revenue was deferred upon shipment and would be recognized when the payment became due provided all other revenue recognition criteria had been satisfied.
Product revenue was generally recognized upon shipment of product to customers, net of accruals for estimated sales returns and rebates. However, some of the Company’s sales were made through distributors under agreements allowing for price protection and limited rights of stock rotation on products unsold by the distributors. Product revenue on sales made through distributors were deferred until the distributors sold the product to end customers. Deferred revenue less the related cost of the inventories was reported as deferred income. The Company did not believe that there was any significant exposure related to impairment of deferred cost of sales, as its historical returns had been minimal and inventory turnover for its distributors generally ranged from 60 to 90 days. The Company’s sales to direct customers were made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products.
The Company enters into contracts that may include various combinations of products and services that are capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. To date, the majority of the revenue has been generated by sales associated with storage and networking products. Revenue from services has been insignificant. Performance obligations associated with product sales transactions are generally satisfied when control passes to customers upon shipment. Accordingly, product revenue is recognized at a point in time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer. The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. For product revenue, the performance obligation is deemed to be the delivery of the product and therefore, the revenue is generally recognized upon shipment to customers, net of accruals for estimated sales returns and rebates. These estimates are based on historical returns, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. Actual returns could differ from these estimates. The Company accounts for rebates by recording reductions to revenue for rebates in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based upon the terms agreed to with the customer. Some of the Company’s sales are made to distributors under agreements allowing for price protection, price discounts and limited rights of stock rotation on products unsold by the distributors. Control passes to the distributor upon shipment, and terms and payment by the Company’s distributors is not contingent on resale of the product. Product revenue on sales made to distributors with price protection and stock rotation rights is recognized upon shipment to distributors, with an accrual for the variable consideration aspect of sales to distributors, estimated based on historical experience, including estimates for price discounts, price protection, rebates, and stock rotation programs.
2)Networking products are comprised primarily of Ethernet Switches, Ethernet Transceivers, Ethernet NICs, Embedded Communications and Infrastructure Processors, Automotive Ethernet, Security Adapters and Processors as well as Connectivity products. In addition, this grouping includes a few legacy product lines in which the Company no longer invests, but will generate revenue for several years. 
The opening balance of contract liabilities at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $79.6 million. During the six months ended August 4, 2018, contract liabilities increased by $363.3 million associated with variable consideration estimates for additional shipments in the quarter, offset by $336.7 million decrease in such reserves primarily due to credit memos issued to customers. The ending balance of contract liabilities as of the second quarter ended in fiscal year 2019 was $106.2 million. 


item2.txt
We are a fabless semiconductor provider of high-performance, application-specific standard products. Our core strength is developing complex System-on-a-Chip (“SoC”) devices, leveraging our technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, and embedded and standalone integrated circuits. We also develop integrated hardware platforms along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution. Our broad product portfolio includes devices for storage, networking and connectivity.
On July 6, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Cavium. Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. Cavium designs, develops and markets semiconductor processors for intelligent and secure networks. Cavium's operating results from the acquisition date through our second quarter ended August 4, 2018 have been included in our consolidated financial statements. See “Note 3 - Business Combination” of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our acquisition of Cavium. 
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, our net revenue increased year over year by 10.0% from $604.8 million net revenue in the second quarter fiscal 2018 compared with $665.3 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The increase was primarily due to a 15% increase in our networking product sales and 8% increase in our storage product sales, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 3% in relation to the three months ended July 29, 2017. Our net revenue for the six months ended August 4, 2018 increased by $92.5 million compared to net revenue for the six months ended July 29, 2017. The increase was primarily due to increased sales of our networking products by 13% and storage products by 6%, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. The growth was offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 6% in relation to the six months ended July 29, 2017. 


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common shares. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, semiconductor and related industries and end markets. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
The Credit Agreement and the Senior Notes contain customary events of default upon the occurrence of which, after any applicable grace period, the lenders would have the ability to immediately declare the loans due and payable in whole or in part. In such event, we may not have sufficient available cash to repay such debt at the time it becomes due, or be able to refinance such debt on acceptable terms or at all. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
The Credit Agreement and the indenture for the Senior Notes each contains a number of covenants imposing restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The restrictions, among other things, restrict our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to create or incur certain liens, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, merge or consolidate with other companies, pay dividends, transfer or sell assets and make restricted payments. These restrictions are subject to a number of limitations and exceptions set forth in the Credit Agreement and the indenture for the Senior Notes. Our ability to meet the liquidity covenant set forth in the Credit Agreement may be affected by events beyond our control.
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the notes, or to make anticipated capital expenditures. Our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the notes) or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us, potentially hindering our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and increasing our costs of registration. 
We will be required to repurchase the Senior Notes at the option of each holder upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event as defined in the indenture for the Senior Notes. However, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the notes in cash at the time of any change of control repurchase event. Our failure to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control repurchase event would be an event of default under the indenture for the Senior Notes and could cause a cross-default or acceleration under certain future agreements governing our other indebtedness. The repayment obligations under the Senior Notes may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company. If we were required to pay the Senior Notes prior to their scheduled maturity, it could have a significant negative impact on our cash and liquidity and could impact our ability to invest financial resources in other strategic initiatives.
Our sales are concentrated in a few large customers. If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.
We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. Net revenue from our two largest customers represented 28% and 37% of our net revenue for the three months ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017, respectively. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period and year to year and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future, primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and natural disasters or other issues that may divert a customer’s operations. The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent one or more of our large customers experience significant financial difficulty, bankruptcy or insolvency, this could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our ability to collect on receivables, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. 
Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations and may not achieve the benefits we expect from possible acquisitions. Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.
The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking and connectivity markets, is extremely competitive. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures. For example, we are facing, and expect we will continue to face, significant competition in the networking and SSD storage markets. Additionally, customer expectations and requirements have been evolving rapidly. For example, customers now expect us to provide turnkey solutions and commit to future roadmaps that have technical risks. 
Some of our competitors may be better situated to meet changing customer needs and secure design wins. Increasing competition in the markets in which we operate may negatively impact our revenue and gross margins. For example, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match, such as bundling multiple products and pricing. In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Furthermore, our current and potential competitors in the data communication and wireless markets have established or may establish financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of customers. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among these competitors may acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. While we continue to pursue similar strategic relationships, and currently have significant financial and technical resources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against existing or new competitors, which would harm our results of operations. As the technology inflections happen, our competitors may get ahead of us and negatively impact our market share.


