item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three months ended May 5, 2018, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2018 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018. In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations. All inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Operating results for the periods presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the entire year. The Company's financial results for prior periods presented herein have been recast to reflect certain businesses that were classified as discontinued operations during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017 and second quarter of fiscal year 2018. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. These amounts were not material to any of the periods presented.
On November 19, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”), pursuant to which a subsidiary of the Company will merge with and into Cavium, with Cavium surviving and becoming a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger"). Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. The Merger is primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions. 
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Company will issue 2.1757 common shares and pay $40.00 per share in cash, without interest, for each share of Cavium common stock. The exchange ratio was based on a purchase price of $80 per share, using the Company's undisturbed price prior to November 3, when media reports of the transaction first surfaced. This represents a transaction value of approximately $6 billion. The merger consideration will be financed by a mix of cash, new debt financing and issuance of the Company's common stock. 
In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers that superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The new standard requires an entity to recognize revenue from the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance addresses, in particular, contracts with more than one performance obligation, as well as the accounting for certain costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer, and provides for additional disclosures with respect to revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. Public entities are required to apply the amendments on either a full or modified retrospective basis for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and for interim periods within those annual periods. The Company adopted the standard on a modified retrospective basis in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with the cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings at the date of adoption. See "Note 3 - Revenue" for additional information on the impact of the adoption of the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 
In November 2016, the FASB issued new guidance that requires entities to include in their cash and cash-equivalent balances in the statement of cash flows those amounts that are deemed to be restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents. As a result, companies will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis. The standard eliminates the threshold for initial recognition in current GAAP and reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses. The measurement of expected credit losses is based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the financial assets. The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that simplifies the application and administration of hedge accounting. The guidance amends the presentation and disclosure requirements and changes how companies assess effectiveness. The guidance is intended to more closely align hedge accounting with companies' risk management strategies, simplify the application of hedge accounting, and increase transparency as to the scope and results of hedging programs. The guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. Early adoption is permitted. The guidance will be applied to cash flow and net investment hedge relationships that exist on the date of adoption using a modified retrospective approach. The presentation and disclosure requirements will be applied prospectively. The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
At the beginning of fiscal year 2019, the Company adopted the new revenue recognition standard on a modified retrospective basis, with the cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings at the date of adoption. The Company elected to apply the new revenue standard retrospectively to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of the initial adoption. Based on the Company’s assessment of this new accounting standard, a change in revenue recognition timing on its component sales made to distributors was made in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and the Company started to recognize revenue when the Company transfers control to the distributor rather than deferring recognition until the distributor sells the components. In addition, the Company established accruals for the variable consideration aspect of sales, estimated based on historical experience, which include estimates for price discounts, price protection, rebates, returns and stock rotation programs. On the date of initial adoption, the Company removed the deferred income on component sales made to distributors and recorded estimates of the accruals for variable consideration through a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. The net impact to the opening balance of retained earnings related to the adoption of the new standard was an increase of $34.2 million.
Through the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018, in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, the Company recognized revenue when there was persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery had occurred, the fee was fixed or determinable, and collection was reasonably assured. If the Company granted extended payment terms greater than its standard terms for a customer such that collectability was not assured, the revenue was deferred upon shipment and would be recognized when the payment became due provided all other revenue recognition criteria had been satisfied.
Product revenue was generally recognized upon shipment of product to customers, net of accruals for estimated sales returns and rebates. However, some of the Company’s sales were made through distributors under agreements allowing for price protection and limited rights of stock rotation on products unsold by the distributors. Product revenue on sales made through distributors were deferred until the distributors sold the product to end customers. Deferred revenue less the related cost of the inventories was reported as deferred income. The Company did not believe that there was any significant exposure related to impairment of deferred cost of sales, as its historical returns had been minimal and inventory turnover for its distributors generally ranged from 60 to 90 days. The Company’s sales to direct customers were made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products.
The Company enters into contracts that may include various combinations of products and services that are capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. To date, the majority of the revenue has been generated by sales associated with storage, networking and connectivity products. Revenue from services has been insignificant. Performance obligations associated with product sales transactions are generally satisfied when control passes to customers upon shipment. Accordingly, product revenue is recognized at a point in time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer. The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. For product revenue, the performance obligation is deemed to be the delivery of the product and therefore, the revenue is generally recognized upon shipment to customers, net of accruals for estimated sales returns and rebates. These estimates are based on historical returns, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. Actual returns could differ from these estimates. The Company accounts for rebates by recording reductions to revenue for rebates in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based upon the terms agreed to with the customer. Some of the Company’s sales are made to distributors under agreements allowing for price protection, price discounts and limited rights of stock rotation on products unsold by the distributors. Control passes to the distributor upon shipment, and terms and payment by the Company’s distributors is not contingent on resale of the product. Product revenue on sales made to distributors with price protection and stock rotation rights is recognized upon shipment to distributors, with an accrual for the variable consideration aspect of sales to distributors, estimated based on historical experience, including estimates for price discounts, price protection, rebates, and stock rotation programs.
The Company’s products are generally subject to warranty, which provides for the estimated future costs of replacement upon shipment of the product. The Company’s products carry a standard one-year warranty, with certain exceptions in which the warranty period can extend to more than one year based on contractual agreements. The warranty accrual is estimated primarily based on historical claims compared to historical revenues and assumes that the Company will have to replace products subject to a claim. From time to time, the Company becomes aware of specific warranty situations, and it records specific accruals to cover these exposures. Warranty expenses were not material for the periods presented.
Contract liabilities consist of the Company’s obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the Company has received consideration or the amount is due from the customer. As of May 5, 2018, contract liability balances are comprised of variable consideration estimated based on a portfolio basis using the expected value methodology based on analysis of historical data, current economic conditions, and contractual terms. Variable consideration estimates consist of the estimated returns, price discounts, price protection, rebates, and stock rotation programs and deferred income for the prepayments made by the customers. As of the end of a reporting period, some of the performance obligations associated with contracts will have been unsatisfied or only partially satisfied. In accordance with the practical expedients available in the guidance, the Company does not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less. Contract liabilities are included in accrued liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. 
Short-term, highly liquid investments of $392.1 million and $267.6 million as of May 5, 2018 and February 3, 2018, respectively, included in cash and cash equivalents on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, are not included in the tables above because the gross unrealized gains and losses were immaterial as the carrying values approximate fair value due to the short term maturity of such investments. 


item2.txt
We are a fabless semiconductor provider of high-performance, application-specific standard products. Our core strength is developing complex System-on-a-Chip (“SoC”) devices, leveraging our technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, and embedded and standalone integrated circuits. We also develop integrated hardware platforms along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution. Our broad product portfolio includes devices for storage, networking and connectivity.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, our net revenue increased year over year by 6% from $572.7 million net revenue in the first quarter fiscal 2018 compared with $604.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The increase was primarily due to a 4% increase in our storage product sales and 11% increase in our networking and connectivity product sales. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 10% in relation to the three months ended April 29, 2017. 
Pending Business Combination. On November 19, 2017, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”), pursuant to which one of our subsidiaries will merge with and into Cavium, with Cavium surviving and becoming our wholly-owned indirect subsidiary (the “Merger”). Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. The Merger is primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 8 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference. For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” immediately below.
Our proposed acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”) involves a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that we fail to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or at all, regulatory risks, risks associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.
The regulatory approvals required in connection with the proposed transaction may not be obtained or may contain materially burdensome conditions. If any conditions or changes to the structure of the proposed transaction are required to obtain these regulatory approvals, they may have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the proposed transaction or reducing our anticipated benefits. If we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the proposed transaction, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.
The Merger Agreement contains provisions that, subject to certain exceptions, limit each of Marvell’s and Cavium’s ability to solicit, initiate, encourage or facilitate, or enter into discussions or negotiations with respect to, any inquiries regarding or the making of any proposal or offer that constitutes or could reasonably be expected to lead to an alternative transaction. In addition, under specified circumstances, Marvell or Cavium is required to pay a termination fee of $180 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated. It is possible that these or other provisions might discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Marvell or Cavium from considering or proposing an acquisition or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire Marvell or Cavium than it might otherwise have proposed to pay.
Marvell, Cavium and members of Cavium’s board of directors have in the past and may in the future be parties, among others, to various claims and litigation related to the Merger Agreement and the Merger, including putative shareholder class actions. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs in such matters may seek to enjoin the Merger. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict, and could delay or prevent the Merger from becoming effective in a timely manner. Moreover, litigation could be time consuming and expensive, could divert Marvell’s and Cavium’s management’s attention away from their regular businesses, and, if adversely resolved against either Marvell or Cavium, could have a material adverse effect on Marvell’s or Cavium’s respective financial condition or the condition of the combined company.
Our sales are concentrated in a few large customers. If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.
Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations and may not achieve the benefits we expect from possible acquisitions. Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.
The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking and connectivity markets, is extremely competitive. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures. For example, we are facing, and expect we will continue to face, significant competition in the networking market. Additionally, customer expectations and requirements have been evolving rapidly. For example, customers now expect us to provide turnkey solutions and commit to future roadmaps that have technical risks. 
In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced increased consolidation over the past several years. For example, Avago Technologies Limited (now Broadcom Limited (“Broadcom”)) acquired Broadcom Corporation in February 2016 and LSI Corporation in May 2014; Intel acquired Altera Corporation in December 2015; and NXP Semiconductors acquired Freescale Semiconductor, Ltd. in December 2015. In addition, Qualcomm announced a pending bid to buy NXP Semiconductors. Consolidation among our competitors could lead to a changing competitive landscape, capabilities and market share, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our results of operations.   
The HDD industry is intensely competitive and technology inflections are happening rapidly. This industry has historically been cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect us because some of our largest customers participate in this industry.
We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business.


