item1.txt
The operating results of Lucid have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
The standard requires that all excess tax benefits and deficiencies previously recorded as additional paid-in capital be prospectively recorded in income tax expense, which could create volatility in the Company's effective income tax rate on a quarter by quarter basis due primarily to fluctuations in the Company's stock price and the timing of stock option exercises and vesting of restricted share grants.
Excess tax benefits and deficiencies are recorded within Income tax (benefit) expense within the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income on a prospective basis as required by the standard; however, the Company elected to present changes to the statement of cash flows on a retrospective basis as allowed by the standard in order to maintain comparability between fiscal years.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2017-01 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows including debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance.
The Company intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019, and the provisions of ASU 2016-15 are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statement disclosures.
The implementation team has completed its initial phase of contract reviews and continues to evaluate the results of those reviews with respect to potential changes from adopting the new standard on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Based on the current portfolio of the Company's revenue generating activities, these changes are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
The Company determines fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability.
The Company's cash and cash equivalents (Level 1), which are required to be carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis, were $229.8 million and $311.1 million as of February 28, 2018 and August 31, 2017, respectively.
The Company used quoted market prices to determine the fair value of Level 1 assets and liabilities.
Disclosures of fair value information about financial instruments (whether or not recognized in the balance sheet), for which it is practicable to estimate that value, are required each reporting period in addition to any financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis as prescribed by ASC 825, Financial Instruments (“ASC 825”).
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, the Company estimates that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of February 28, 2018 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
These projections exclude the impact to amortization expense related to potential intangible assets associated with the Lucid transaction, which is not expected to be material to the Company's operations.
The acquisition accounting and the related useful lives and amortization for the Lucid acquisition are preliminary as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired.
Further discussion of the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
Further discussion of the Company’s stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
As of February 28, 2018, the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $10.2 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under the Company's casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for the Company’s industrial revenue bond (not an outstanding amount under the Revolving Credit Facility).
At February 28, 2018, the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $244.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility.
At February 28, 2018, the Company had $350.0 million of publicly-traded, senior unsecured notes outstanding at a 6% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in December 2019 (the “Unsecured Notes”) and $4.0 million of tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds that are scheduled to mature in 2021.
Further discussion of the Company's long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
The Company accounts for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors of the Company, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of the Company's equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into the Company's director deferred compensation plan or the Company's supplemental deferred savings plan.
Further details regarding each of these award programs and the Company's share-based payments are included within the Share-based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
Further details regarding the Company's pension plans are included within the Pension and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
Costs reflected within Special charge on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and six months ended February 28, 2018 primarily include severance and employee-related costs for the 2017 initiative.
Following the enactment of the TCJA, the Company recognized a provisional tax benefit estimate of $31.2 million within Income tax (benefit) expense on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
This provisional amount includes a benefit of $32.3 million to decrease the Company's deferred income taxes to a revised statutory federal rate as well as a current estimate for the provision for unremitted foreign earnings of approximately $1.1 million.
Additionally, the Company reclassified $11.1 million from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to Retained earnings in relation to the revaluation of deferred tax assets related to the Company's defined benefit plans during the current period.
In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, the Company has included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule 3-10(d) of SEC Regulation S-X since the Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding.
Lastly, the column listed as “Non-Guarantors” includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries.
Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting.
Information set forth in this report’s Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes any legal proceedings that became reportable during the quarter ended February 28, 2018, and updates any descriptions of previously reported legal proceedings in which there have been material developments during such quarter.


item2.txt
The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements.
In June 2017, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) authorized the repurchase of two million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock in the future.
The Company's short-term cash needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding possible acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing up to six million shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board.
Management believes that the Company will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on its cash on hand, current projections of cash flow from operations, and borrowing availability under existing financing arrangements, as well as potential additional borrowings for stock repurchases.
The Company uses available cash and cash flow from operations, as well as proceeds from the exercise of stock options, to fund operations, capital expenditures, and acquisitions, repurchase Company stock, and pay dividends.
The Company’s cash position at February 28, 2018 was $229.8 million, a decrease of $81.3 million from August 31, 2017.
During the six months ended February 28, 2018, the Company generated net cash flows from operations of $178.3 million.
Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the current period primarily to repurchase 1.2 million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock for $194.3 million, to fund acquisitions of $26.4 million, to fund capital expenditures of $20.9 million, to pay dividends to stockholders of $10.9 million, and to pay employee taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $6.7 million.
The Company generated $178.3 million of cash flow from operating activities during the six months ended February 28, 2018 compared with $90.0 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $88.3 million, due primarily to lower operating working capital requirements and lower variable incentive payments for prior year performance.
Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable-net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) decreased approximately $26.0 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to a $22.0 million increase during the first six months of fiscal 2017.
The Company invested $20.9 million and $35.8 million in the first six months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively, primarily related to investments in new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology.
The Company expects to invest approximately two percent of net sales primarily for new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology capabilities during fiscal 2018.
At February 28, 2018, the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $244.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of February 28, 2018, the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $10.2 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under the Company's casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for the Company’s industrial revenue bond, including $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility.
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, the Company’s consolidated stockholders’ equity decreased $29.8 million to $1.64 billion at February 28, 2018, from $1.67 billion at August 31, 2017.
The decrease was due primarily to share repurchases, the payment of dividends, shares withheld for employee taxes on vested restricted stock grants, and foreign currency translation adjustments, partially offset by net income earned in the period, stock issuances resulting primarily from the exercise of stock options, and amortization of pension plan prior service costs and actuarial losses.
Net sales were $832.1 million for the three months ended February 28, 2018 compared with $804.7 million reported for the three months ended February 28, 2017, an increase of $27.4 million, or 3.4%.
For the three months ended February 28, 2018, the Company reported net income of $96.9 million, an increase of $29.6 million, or 44.0%, compared with $67.3 million for the three months ended February 28, 2017.
Net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased $29.6 million to $96.9 million from $67.3 million reported for the prior-year period.
Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended February 28, 2018 increased $0.80 to $2.33 compared with diluted earnings per share of $1.53 for the prior-year period.
Adjusted net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $78.5 million compared with $77.7 million in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $0.8 million, or 1.0%.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three months ended February 28, 2018 increased $0.12, or 6.8%, to $1.89 compared with $1.77 for the prior-year period.
The Company recognized a pre-tax special charge of $0.8 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018, compared with a pre-tax special charge of $1.2 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017.
The Company reported net miscellaneous expense of $0.9 million in the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared with net miscellaneous income of $7.3 million in the prior-year period.
Net miscellaneous income for the six months ended February 28, 2017 included a $7.2 million gain associated with the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate.
The Company’s effective income tax rate was 11.2% and 34.0% for the six months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Net income for the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased $19.4 million to $168.4 million from $149.0 million reported for the prior-year period.
Diluted earnings per share for the six months ended February 28, 2018 increased $0.65 to $4.04 compared with diluted earnings per share of $3.39 for the prior-year period.
Adjusted net income for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $160.0 million compared with $165.5 million in the prior-year period, which represented a decrease of $5.5 million, or 3.3%.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the six months ended February 28, 2018 increased $0.08, or 2.1%, to $3.84 compared with $3.76 for the prior-year period.


item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on this evaluation, these officers have concluded that the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective at a reasonable assurance level as of February 28, 2018.


part2.txt
Item 1a.Risk Factors
Item 5.Other Information
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.


