item1.txt
(“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets.
The Company is required to apply this guidance to annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those periods.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2017-01 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows including debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance.
The Company intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019, and the provisions of ASU 2016-15 are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statement disclosures.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2016-02 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2020.
The Company has an implementation team tasked with identifying potential differences that will result from applying the new revenue recognition standard to the Company's contracts with its customers.
The implementation team has completed its initial phase of contract reviews and continues to evaluate the results of those reviews with respect to potential changes from adopting the new standard on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Based on the current portfolio of the Company's revenue generating activities, these changes are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Additionally, the implementation team is in the process of identifying appropriate changes to the Company's business processes, systems, and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard.
Based on the implementation team's current findings and the overall expected immaterial impact of adoption, the implementation team is currently evaluating which adoption method would provide the most meaningful information to the Company's stakeholders.
The Company will adopt the requirements of the new standard no later than the effective date of September 1, 2018.
The Company determines fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability.
Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i) unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level 1), (ii) quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level 2), and (iii) prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level 3).
The Company's cash and cash equivalents (Level 1), which are required to be carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis, were $428.6 million and $311.1 million as of November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, respectively.
The Company used quoted market prices to determine the fair value of Level 1 assets and liabilities.
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, the Company estimates that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of November 30, 2017 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
Further discussion of the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
Further discussion of the Company’s stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
As of November 30, 2017, the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of November 30, 2017, the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $10.2 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under the Company's casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for the Company’s industrial revenue bond (not an outstanding amount under the Revolving Credit Facility).
At November 30, 2017, the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $244.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility.
At November 30, 2017, the Company had $350.0 million of publicly-traded, senior unsecured notes outstanding at a 6% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in December 2019 (the “Unsecured Notes”) and $4.0 million of tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds that are scheduled to mature in 2021.
Further discussion of the Company's long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
The Company accounts for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors of the Company, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of the Company's equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into the Company's director deferred compensation plan or the Company's supplemental deferred savings plan.
Further details regarding each of these award programs and the Company's share-based payments are included within the Share-based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
Further details regarding the Company's pension plans are included within the Pension and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
In December 2009, ABL, the 100% owned and principal operating subsidiary of Acuity Brands, refinanced the then current outstanding debt through the issuance of the Notes.
Due to the filing of the registration statement and offer to exchange, the Company determined the need for compliance with Rule 3-10 of SEC Regulation S-X (“Rule 3-10”).
In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, the Company has included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule 3-10(d) of SEC Regulation S-X since the Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding.
The column marked “Parent” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands.
Lastly, the column listed as “Non-Guarantors” includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries.
Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting.
Additionally, the Board determined that the Company will hold future non-binding, advisory votes of stockholders to approve the compensation of the named executive officers every year, consistent with the results of the vote at the annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018.
(b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


item2.txt
The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements.
Based on its cash on hand, availability under existing financing arrangements, and current projections of cash flow from operations, the Company believes that it will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months.
The Company's short-term needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding potential acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board of Directors (the “Board”).
During fiscal 2018, the Company currently expects to invest approximately two percent of net sales, of which $10.3 million had been invested as of November 30, 2017, in capital expenditures primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities.
Additionally, management believes that the Company’s cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, borrowing capacity, will sufficiently support the long-term liquidity needs of the Company.
The Company uses available cash and cash flow from operations, as well as proceeds from the exercise of stock options, to fund operations, capital expenditures, and acquisitions, repurchase Company stock, and pay dividends.
The Company generated $139.8 million of cash flow from operating activities during the three months ended November 30, 2017 compared with $55.8 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $84.0 million, due primarily to lower operating working capital requirements, the timing of payments for income taxes, and lower variable incentive compensation payments for prior year performance.
Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable-net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) decreased approximately $14.0 million during the first three months of fiscal 2018 compared to a $0.1 million increase during the first three months of fiscal 2017.
During the first three months of fiscal 2018, the Company’s consolidated stockholders’ equity increased $60.5 million to $1.73 billion at November 30, 2017, from $1.67 billion at August 31, 2017.
The Company’s debt to total capitalization ratio (calculated by dividing total debt by the sum of total debt and total stockholders’ equity) was 17.1% and 17.6% at November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, respectively.
Acuity Brands paid dividends on its common stock of $5.5 million and $5.8 million ($0.13 per share) during the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
For the three months ended November 30, 2017, the Company reported net income of $71.5 million, a decrease of $10.2 million, or 12.5%, compared with $81.7 million for the three months ended November 30, 2016.
The Company recognized pre-tax special charges related to prior fiscal year actions of $0.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, compared with pre-tax special charges of $1.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2017.
The Company’s effective income tax rate was 35.5% and 35.3% for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased $10.2 million to $71.5 million from $81.7 million reported for the prior-year period.
Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended November 30, 2017 decreased $0.16 to $1.70 compared with diluted earnings per share of $1.86 for the prior-year period.


item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
As required by SEC rules, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of November 30, 2017.
Based on this evaluation, these officers have concluded that the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective at a reasonable assurance level as of November 30, 2017.


part2.txt
Item 1a.Risk Factors
Item 5.Other Information
At the Company's annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018, in Atlanta, Georgia, the stockholders considered and voted on the following proposals.
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
(c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.
(b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


