item1.txt
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
The operating results of IOTA have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
The operating results of Lucid have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
There were no material changes to our financial statements as a result of the finalization of the acquisition accounting for Lucid or IOTA.
The standard also requires additional disclosures about the nature, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in those judgments.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement that is a Service Contract (“ASU 2018-15”), which will require customers to apply internal-use software guidance to determine the implementation costs that are able to be capitalized.
The provisions of ASU 2018-15 are not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
The standard allows entities to present the effects of the accounting change as either a cumulative adjustment as of the beginning of the earliest period presented or as of the date of adoption.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for goods and services and is recognized net of allowances for rebates, sales incentives, product returns, and discounts to customers.
Our standard terms and conditions of sale allow for the return of certain products within four months of the date of shipment.
The limited product return rights generally allow customers to return resalable products purchased within a specified time period and subject to certain limitations, including, at times, when accompanied by a replacement order of equal or greater value.
At the time revenue is recognized, we record a refund liability for the expected value of future returns primarily based on historical experience, specific notification of pending returns, or based on contractual terms with the respective customers.
Approximately 95% of revenues for the periods presented were generated from short-term contracts with our customers to deliver tangible goods such as luminaires, lighting controllers, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers.
We account for service-type warranties as distinct performance obligations and recognize revenue for these contracts ratably over the life of the additional warranty period.
We recognize revenue for software based on the contractual rights provided to a customer, which typically results in the recognition of revenue ratably over the contractual service period.
Current deferred revenues primarily consist of customer prepayments, software licenses, and to a lesser extent professional service and sales-type warranty fees collected prior to performing the related service.
Current deferred revenues are included within Other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Non-current deferred revenues primarily consist of long-term service-type warranties, which are typically recognized ratably as revenue between five and ten years from the date of sale, and are included 
ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i) unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level 1), (ii) quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level 2), and (iii) prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level 3).
The senior unsecured public notes are carried at the outstanding balance, net of unamortized bond discount and deferred costs, as of the end of the reporting period.
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, we estimate that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of May 31, 2019 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
Further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Further discussion of our stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
We are required to pay certain fees in connection with the Credit Agreement, including administrative service fees and annual facility fees.
The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest expense coverage ratio (“Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”), as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement.
At May 31, 2019, we had additional borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement of $794.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility less the outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of May 31, 2019, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $9.5 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under our casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for our industrial revenue bond, which includes the $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Currently, we plan to refinance the Unsecured Notes in full at maturity with borrowings under the Term Loan Facility, of which $341.1 million of the current carrying value of the Unsecured Notes would be due more than one year from the anticipated refinancing date.
Further discussion of our long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings, partially offset by interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents.
We account for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of our equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into our director deferred compensation plan or our supplemental deferred savings plan.
Further details regarding each of these award programs and our share-based payments are included within the Share-based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Further details regarding our pension plans are included within the Pension and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
In December 2009, ABL, the 100% owned and principal operating subsidiary of Acuity Brands, refinanced the then current outstanding debt through the issuance of the Unsecured Notes.
In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, we have included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule 3-10(d) of SEC Regulation S-X since the Unsecured Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding.
The column marked “Parent” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands.
Lastly, the column listed as “Non-Guarantors” includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries.
Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting.
Information set forth in this report’s Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes any legal proceedings that became reportable during the quarter ended May 31, 2019, and updates any descriptions of previously reported legal proceedings in which there have been material developments during such quarter.
The discussion of legal proceedings included within the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated into this Item 1 by reference.
This summary of the amendments to the SERP and SDSP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Acuity Brands, Inc. 2002 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2003, as amended and restated effective as of July 1, 2019, and the Acuity Brands, Inc. 2005 Supplemental Deferred Savings Plan, as amended and restated effective July 1, 2019, except where otherwise noted, which are set forth in Exhibits 10(b) and 10(c) to this Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q.


item2.txt
Our short-term cash needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned; making capital investments as currently anticipated; paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated; paying principal and interest on debt as currently scheduled, including our senior unsecured notes maturing in December 2019, which we expect to repay with borrowings available under existing credit arrangements; making required contributions to our employee benefit plans; funding possible acquisitions; and potentially repurchasing shares of our outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board.
Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 primarily to repurchase 0.4 million shares of our outstanding common stock for $48.7 million, fund capital expenditures of $39.8 million, pay dividends to stockholders of $15.6 million, and pay withholding taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $4.9 million.
We generated $312.0 million of cash flow from operating activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 compared with $299.7 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $12.3 million, due primarily to lower operating working capital requirements.
Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable, net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) decreased approximately $21.1 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to a $3.0 million decrease during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 due primarily to greater cash collections from customers year over year as well as fewer inventory purchases, partially offset by the timing of payments for trade payables.
Net sales were $947.6 million for the three months ended May 31, 2019 compared with $944.0 million reported for the three months ended May 31, 2018, an increase of $3.6 million, or 0.4%.
we reported net income of $88.4 million, an increase of $15.4 million, or 21.1%, compared with $73.0 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018.
Gross profit margin decreased 70 basis points to 40.5% for the three months ended May 31, 2019 compared with 41.2% in the prior-year period.
Net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $15.4 million to $88.4 million from $73.0 million reported for the prior-year period.
The increase in net income resulted primarily from an increased operating profit compared to the prior-year period and to a lesser extent lower income tax expense.
Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended May 31, 2019 increased $0.42 to $2.22 compared with diluted earnings per share of $1.80 for the prior-year period.
Adjusted net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $100.6 million, compared with $95.9 million in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $4.7 million, or 4.9%.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three months ended May 31, 2019 increased $0.16, or 6.8%, to $2.53 compared with $2.37 for the prior-year period.
Net sales were $2.73 billion for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 compared with $2.62 billion reported for the nine months ended May 31, 2018, an increase of $115.7 million, or 4.4%.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, diluted earnings per share increased 0.3% to $5.87 compared with $5.85 reported in the year-ago period.
Fiscal 2019 results were impacted by the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in a decrease to revenues, gross profit, and operating profit of $7.8 million, $3.8 million, and $4.0 million, respectively, during the nine months ended May 31, 2019.
Upon adoption of ASU 2017-07, our previously reported operating profit and other expense both increased $4.6 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2018.
Gross profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased $11.5 million compared to the prior-year period.
Gross profit margin decreased to 39.7% for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 compared with 41.0% in the prior-year period.
Adjusted gross profit for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 was $1,087.1 million (39.8% of net sales) compared with $1,077.1 million (41.1% of net sales) in the prior-year period.
Adjusted operating profit increased by $3.9 million, or 1.0%, to $382.0 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared with $378.1 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Adjusted operating profit margin for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased 40 basis points to 14.0% compared with 14.4% in the year-ago period.
nine months ended May 31, 2019 increased $0.02 to $5.87 compared with diluted earnings per share of $5.85 for the prior-year period.


part2.txt
Item 1a.Risk Factors
Item 5.Other Information
Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc.
(formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
(formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
(c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.
EXHIBIT 10(a)Amendment No. 1 dated as of April 22, 2019 to Credit Agreement dated as of June 29, 2018.


