item1.txt
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
The operating results of IOTA have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
The operating results of Lucid have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets obtained in an acquisition is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets.
The provisions of ASU 2017-01 did not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
The standard also requires additional disclosures about the nature, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in those judgments.
We adopted ASC 606 effective September 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and recognized a cumulative effect of applying ASC 606 of $13.0 million in Retained earnings on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of this date.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract (“ASU 2018-02”), which will require customers to apply internal-use software guidance to determine the implementation costs that are able to be capitalized.
The provisions of ASU 2018-15 are not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (“ASU 2016-13”), which requires an entity to assess impairment of its financial instruments based on its estimate of expected credit losses.
The provisions of ASU 2016-13 is not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
The standard allows entities to present the effects of the accounting change as either a cumulative adjustment as of the beginning of the earliest period presented or as of the date of adoption.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for goods and services and is recognized net of allowances for rebates, sales incentives, product returns, and discounts to customers.
Allowances for cash discounts to customers are estimated using the expected value method based on historical experience and are recorded as a reduction to sales.
The limited product return rights generally allow customers to return resalable products purchased within a specified time period and subject to certain limitations, including, at times, when accompanied by a replacement order of equal or greater value.
At the time revenue is recognized, we record a refund liability for the expected value of future returns primarily based on historical experience, specific notification of pending returns, or based on contractual terms with the respective customers.
Total refund liabilities recorded under ASC 606 related to rights of return, cash discounts, and other miscellaneous credits to customers were $39.5 million and $41.2 million as of November 30, 2018 and September 1, 2018, respectively, and are reflected within Other accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Additionally, we record right of return assets for inventory expected to be returned to our distribution centers, which is included within Prepayments and other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We account for service-type warranties as distinct performance obligations and recognize revenue for these contracts ratably over the life of the additional warranty period.
We recognize revenue for software based on the contractual rights provided to a customer, which typically results in the recognition of revenue ratably over the contractual service period.
Current deferred revenues primarily consist of software licenses, and to a lesser extent professional service and sales-type warranty fees collected prior to performing the related service.
Current deferred revenues are included within Other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Non-current deferred revenues primarily consist of long-term service-type warranties, which are typically recognized ratably as revenue between five and ten years from the date of sale, and are included within Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Revenue recognized from beginning balances of contract liabilities during the three months ended November 30, 2018 totaled $2.2 million.
ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i) unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level 1), (ii) quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level 2), and (iii) prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level 3).
Our cash and cash equivalents (Level 1), which are required to be carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis, were $214.8 million and $129.1 million as of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018, respectively.
Disclosures of fair value information about financial instruments (whether or not recognized in the balance sheet), for which it is practicable to estimate that value, are required each reporting period in addition to any financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis as prescribed by ASC 825, Financial Instruments (“ASC 825”).
The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, we estimate that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of November 30, 2018 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
Further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Further discussion of our stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
The before tax amounts of the defined benefit pension plan items reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss are included in Miscellaneous expense, net on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
We are required to pay certain fees in connection with the Credit Agreement, including administrative service fees and annual facility fees.
The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest expense coverage ratio (“Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”), as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement.
As of November 30, 2018, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $9.5 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under our casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for our industrial revenue bond (not an outstanding amount under the Revolving Credit Facility).
At November 30, 2018, we had additional borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement of $794.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility less the outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Further discussion of our long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings, partially offset by interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents.
We account for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of our equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into our director deferred compensation plan or our supplemental deferred savings plan.
Further details regarding each of these award programs and our share-based payments are included within the Share-based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Further details regarding our pension plans are included within the Pension and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, we have included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule 3-10(d) of SEC Regulation S-X since the Unsecured Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding.
The column marked “Parent” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands.
Lastly, the column listed as “Non-Guarantors” includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries.
Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting.
Information set forth in this report’s Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes any legal proceedings that became reportable during the quarter ended November 30, 2018, and updates any descriptions of previously reported legal proceedings in which there have been material developments during such quarter.
The discussion of legal proceedings included within the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated into this Item 1 by reference.


item2.txt
Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements.
authorization, of which 0.2 million shares were repurchased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Our short-term cash needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to our employee benefit plans, funding possible acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing up to five million shares of our outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, we generated net cash flows from operations of $131.8 million.
Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the three months ended November 30, 2018 primarily to repurchase 0.2 million shares of our outstanding common stock for $25.0 million, to fund capital expenditures of $14.0 million, to pay dividends to stockholders of $5.2 million, and to pay withholding taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $3.9 million.
We generated $131.8 million of cash flow from operating activities during the three months ended November 30, 2018 compared with $139.8 million in the prior-year period, a decrease of $8.0 million, due primarily to the timing of payments for trade payables and accrued expenses, partially offset by the timing of cash collections from customers.
Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable-net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) decreased approximately $31.3 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019 compared to a $14.0 million decrease during the first three months of fiscal 2018 due primarily to greater cash collections from customers year over year.
We invested $14.0 million and $10.3 million in the first three months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively, primarily related to investments in new information technology, equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements.
At November 30, 2018, we had additional borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement of $794.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility less the outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued on the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of November 30, 2018, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $9.5 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under our casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for our industrial revenue bond, including $5.3 million issued under 
During the first three months of fiscal 2019, our consolidated stockholders’ equity increased $34.1 million to $1.75 billion at November 30, 2018, from $1.72 billion at August 31, 2018.
The increase was due primarily to net income earned in the period, partially offset by share repurchases, adjustments related to the adoption of Accounting Standards Codification 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”), and the payment of dividends.
Net sales were $932.6 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 compared with $842.8 million reported for the three months ended November 30, 2017, an increase of $89.8 million, or 10.7%.
For the three months ended November 30, 2018, we reported net income of $79.6 million, an increase of $8.1 million, or 11.3%, compared with $71.5 million for the three months ended November 30, 2017.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, diluted earnings per share increased 16.5% to $1.98 compared with $1.70 reported in the year-ago period.
Fiscal 2019 results were impacted by the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in a decrease to revenues, gross profit, and operating profit of $2.4 million, $1.1 million, and $1.2 million, respectively, during the three months ended November 30, 2018.
Interest expense, net, was $8.7 million and $8.1 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We reported net miscellaneous expense of $1.3 million and $1.2 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $8.1 million to $79.6 million from $71.5 million reported for the prior-year period.
Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended November 30, 2018 increased $0.28 to $1.98 compared with diluted earnings per share of $1.70 for the prior-year period.
This increase reflects higher net income as well as lower average shares outstanding due to repurchases of the Company's stock during the prior twelve-month period.
Adjusted net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $92.8 million compared with $81.5 million in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $11.3 million, or 13.9%.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three months ended November 30, 2018 increased $0.38, or 19.6%, to $2.32 compared with $1.94 for the prior-year period.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we entered into a new credit agreement with a syndicate of banks that increased our borrowing capacity under such agreements from $250 million to $800 million.
The increase in borrowing capacity provides us with the resources to support growth opportunities, including acquisitions, and accommodate the current stock repurchase program, of which 4.8 million shares remain available for repurchase as of January 9, 2019.


part2.txt
Item 1a.Risk Factors
Item 5.Other Information
Wesley from the Board.
Vernerey dated January 4, 2019.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 31(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.


