fls.txt
The following and other risks, which are described in greater detail in “Part I.


item1.txt
The capital reduction by cancellation of these shares was subject to a notice period and filing with the commercial register in Switzerland and became effective in May 2019.
See Note 3 for additional information regarding these guarantees and the divestiture of the SubCom business.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
During fiscal 2019, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements impacting all segments.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
As a result of this measure, during the quarter ended June 28, 2019, we recorded a $214 million income tax benefit related primarily to the reduction to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets.
The acquisitions were reported as part of our Transportation Solutions segment from the date of acquisition.
In connection with the sale, we contractually agreed to honor certain performance guarantees and letters of credit related to the SubCom business.
The update was adopted on a modified retrospective basis in the quarter ended December 28, 2018 and resulted in a $443 million cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning accumulated earnings, which represented the net reversal of all balances associated with deferred tax impacts of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
We adopted ASC 606, as amended, in the quarter ended December 28, 2018 using a modified retrospective approach.
As a result of this measure, during the quarter ended June 28, 2019, we recorded a $214 million income tax benefit related primarily to the reduction to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018.
Under the terms of these contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges, we make interest payments in euros at 3.50% per annum and receive interest in U.S. dollars at a weighted-average rate of 5.33% per annum.


item2.txt
Approximately 60% of our net sales were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
●Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 1.8% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 as a result of growth in the industrial equipment market, partially offset by declines in the commercial transportation and automotive markets.
●Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 0.7% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to growth in the industrial equipment market, partially offset by declines in the commercial transportation market.
Management uses organic net sales growth to monitor and evaluate performance.
Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in United States (“U.S.”) dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”).
Risk Factors.”
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $50 million and $0.03 per share, respectively, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
The tables presented in “Results of Operations” and “Segment Results” provide reconciliations of organic net sales growth to net sales growth calculated in accordance with GAAP.
●Appliances—Our organic net sales decreased 6.3% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of market weakness in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions.
Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S.
●Industrial equipment—Our organic net sales decreased 5.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to reduced demand resulting from high inventory levels at distributors, partially offset by strength in medical applications.
This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies.
We have now increased this amount by $125 million.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we acquired three businesses for a combined cash purchase price of $296 million, net of cash acquired.
●Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales decreased 5.1% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 due to market weakness in the Americas and EMEA regions.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
There have been no material developments in our legal proceedings since we filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, except as set forth in “Part II.


